<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Conclusion</title>
        <link rel="Stylesheet" type="text/css" href="letters.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="header.xhtml" -->
        <div class="parent_container1">
            <div class="container">
                <h1 class="content">Conclusion</h1>
                <p class="content">In our time spent with this material, we have become aware of a
                    few factors that may have negatively impacted the nature of our data. Firstly is
                    an obvious point we came to early on in our research, which is the simple fact
                    that these letters were being sent between soldiers and thier families back
                    home. Naturally, as to keep morale on the homefront high, it stands to reason
                    that the content in these letters will not fully reflect the headspace a soldier
                    finds himself in while in the trenches. Second, we became aware of rampant
                    censorship that most likely affected what could be included in these letters. It
                    stands to reason that if a letter detailing the exact plans of a particular
                    regiment fell into the wrong hands it would lead to a massacre. Additionally, if
                    word of how horrible the conditions were in the trenches made it back to the
                    homefront, it would destroy public opinion of an already unpopular war. Lastly
                    was a self imposed problem in our research, that being the language barrier we
                    faced while assembling our corpus. Since we did not have any native French or
                    German speakers on our team, we were naturally limited in the number of letters
                    we could draw on for our research. Now, we could have used translations of these
                    works or our limited understanding of the afformentioned languages to work
                    through a few letters from France or Germany, but we felt that would leave out
                    the neuances of the letters that would be lost in translation. With this in
                    mind, we were able to observe a notable change in both emotion and the wartime
                    factors present within the letters over time. This change is not only
                    illustrated in the inverted bar charts on our Analysis page, but also in the
                    table below. </p>
            </div>
            <div class="container_table">
                <h2 class="content">Dominant Emotions by Year</h2>
                <table>
                    <tr>
                        <th>Year</th>
                        <th>Number of Letters</th>
                        <th>Majority Positive</th>
                        <th>Majority Neutral</th>
                        <th>Majority Negative</th>
                        <th>Majority Mixed</th>
                        <th>Dominant Emotion</th>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <td>unknown</td>
                        <td>1</td>
                        <td>0</td>
                        <td>0</td>
                        <td>1</td>
                        <td>0</td>
                        <td>Negative</td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <td>1915</td>
                        <td>1</td>
                        <td>0</td>
                        <td>0</td>
                        <td>0</td>
                        <td>1</td>
                        <td>Mixed (Positive/Neutral)</td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <td>1916</td>
                        <td>26</td>
                        <td>8</td>
                        <td>2</td>
                        <td>10</td>
                        <td>6</td>
                        <td>Negative</td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <td>1917</td>
                        <td>13</td>
                        <td>6</td>
                        <td>1</td>
                        <td>3</td>
                        <td>3</td>
                        <td>Positive</td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <td>1918</td>
                        <td>6</td>
                        <td>4</td>
                        <td>2</td>
                        <td>0</td>
                        <td>0</td>
                        <td>Positive</td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <td>1919</td>
                        <td>1</td>
                        <td>1</td>
                        <td>0</td>
                        <td>0</td>
                        <td>0</td>
                        <td>Positive</td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <td>1920</td>
                        <td>1</td>
                        <td>0</td>
                        <td>0</td>
                        <td>0</td>
                        <td>1</td>
                        <td>Mixed (Negative/Positive)</td>
                    </tr>
                </table>
            </div>

            <div class="container">
                <h2 class="content">Key Statistics:</h2>
                <ul class="content">
                    <li class="con">1916- 30% positive, 1% neutral, 38% negative, 23% even
                        distribution</li>
                    <li class="con"> 1916 Majority Factor - Preparation, closely followed by
                        Conditions Out of 26 letters, those which had a majority factor showed 8
                        with a majority of Preparation factors and 7 with a majority of Condition
                        factors.</li>
                    <li class="con"> 1917- 46% positive, 1% neutral, 23% negative, 23% negative</li>
                    <li class="con">1917 Majority Factors - Conditions, followed by Battle Out of 13
                        letters, those which had a majority factor showed 3 with a majority of
                        Conditions factors and 2 with a majority of Battle factors.</li>
                    <li class="con">1918-66% positive, 33% neutral, 0 positive, 0 negative</li>
                    <li class="con">1918 Majority Factor - Sense. Out of 6 letters, those which had
                        a majority factor showed 4 with a majority of Sense factors. </li>
                </ul>
            </div>

            <div class="container">
                <h1 class="content"> Conclusion Cont.</h1>
                <p class="content">Across the three years that we have substantial data for, a
                    positive correlation between the distribution of emotive statements and the
                    dominant wartime factors per year can be observed. Although 1916 encompasses the
                    largest chunk of our corpus and yielded the most letters that trended negative,
                    it should be noted that this data only represents a small sample of what exists
                    and is available to the public. Looking towards the above list of dominant
                    factors per year, it can be gathered that from 1917 onwards, there was a larger
                    distribution of factors that we correlated to positive emotional responses as
                    compared to earlier in the war. Therefore, we can conclude that as the war
                    marched on the factors that contributed to a negative emotional response became
                    less prevalent. Nearly half of the letters from 1917 trend positive, and more
                    than half from 1918 do the same. While we cannot make significant judgements
                    about 1919 or 1920, it does stand to reason that they would also follow this
                    trend. Therefore, we are confident in saying that across our set of data, there
                    is an observable link between the wartime factors we have identified and the
                    mental wellbeing of soldiers serving in the first world war, and that link leads
                    to a positive trend in their mental wellbeing as the war came closer to its
                    end.</p>

            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
