<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Conclusion</title>
        <link rel="Stylesheet" type="text/css" href="letters.css" />
        <style>
            table {
                border-collapse: collapse;
            }
            table,
            th,
            td {
                border: 1px solid black;
            }</style>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div class="head">
            <h1 class="main">Letters From WWI Soldiers</h1>
            <div class="topnav">
                <a href="index.xhtml">Home</a>
                <a href="methodology.xhtml">Methodology</a>
                <a href="letters.xhtml">Letters</a>
                <a href="analysis.xhtml">Analysis</a>
                <a class="active" href="conclusion.xhtml">Conclusion</a>
            </div>
        </div>
        <!--#include virtual="header.xhtml" -->
        <div class="container">
            <h1 class="content">Conclusion</h1>
            <p>In our time spent with this material, we have become aware of a few factors that may
                have negatively impacted the nature of our data. Firstly is an obvious point we came
                to early on in our research, which is the simple fact that these letters were being
                sent between soldiers and thier families back home. Naturally, as to keep morale on
                the homefront high, it stands to reason that the content in these letters will not
                fully reflect the headspace a soldier finds himself in while in the trenches.
                Second, we became aware of rampant censorship that most likely effected what could
                be included in these letters. It stands to reason that if a letter detailing the
                exact plans of a particular regiment fell into the wrong hands it would lead to a
                massacre. Additionally, if word of how horrible the conditions were in the trenches
                made it back to the homefront, it would destroy public opinion of an already
                unpopular war. Lastly was a self imposed problem in our research, that being the
                language barrier we faced while assembling our corpus. Since we did not have any
                native French or German speakers on our team, we were naturally limited in the
                number of letters we could draw on for our research. Now, we could have used
                translations of these works or our limited understanding of the afformentioned
                languages to work through a few letters from France or Germany, but we felt that
                would leave out the neuances of the letters that would be lost in translation. With
                this in mind, we were able to observe a notable change in both emotion and the
                wartime factors present within the letters over time. This change is not only
                illustrated in the inverted bar charts on our Analysis page, but also in the below
                table. </p>
        </div>
        <div class="container_table">
            <h2>Dominant Emotions by Year</h2>
            <table>
                <tr>
                    <th>Year</th>
                    <th>Number of Letters</th>
                    <th>Majority Positive</th>
                    <th>Majority Neutral</th>
                    <th>Majority Negative</th>
                    <th>Majorty Mixed</th>
                    <th>Dominant Emotion</th>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>unknown</td>
                    <td>1</td>
                    <td>0</td>
                    <td>0</td>
                    <td>1</td>
                    <td>0</td>
                    <td>Negative</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>1915</td>
                    <td>1</td>
                    <td>0</td>
                    <td>0</td>
                    <td>0</td>
                    <td>1</td>
                    <td>Mixed (Positive/Neutral)</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>1916</td>
                    <td>26</td>
                    <td>8</td>
                    <td>2</td>
                    <td>10</td>
                    <td>6</td>
                    <td>Negative</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>1917</td>
                    <td>13</td>
                    <td>6</td>
                    <td>1</td>
                    <td>3</td>
                    <td>3</td>
                    <td>Positive</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>1918</td>
                    <td>6</td>
                    <td>4</td>
                    <td>2</td>
                    <td>0</td>
                    <td>0</td>
                    <td>Positive</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>1919</td>
                    <td>1</td>
                    <td>1</td>
                    <td>0</td>
                    <td>0</td>
                    <td>0</td>
                    <td>Positive</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>1920</td>
                    <td>1</td>
                    <td>0</td>
                    <td>0</td>
                    <td>0</td>
                    <td>1</td>
                    <td>Mixed (Negative/Positive)</td>
                </tr>
            </table>
        </div>
        <div class="container">
            <h1 class="content"> Conclusion Cont.</h1>
            <p>As outlined in the chart, the overall emotional state of the soldiers seems to trend
                more positive as the war comes closer to an end, with 1916 being the only year that
                sees a majority of the letters trend Negatively in terms of emotional statements. On
                looking at the trend of this data, we were able to come to two solid end points.
                Firstly, we agreed that as the war raged on, soldiers wanted their families back
                home to hold onto hope they would return. With this in mind, we concluded that this
                trend was caused by soldiers willingly exempting certain elements from their letters
                as to keep hope alive in the loved ones they left behind. Secondly, as mentioned in
                the above paragraph, censorship was exorcised heavily against the soldiers who wrote
                these letters. As such, it can be assumed that any sensitive information relating to
                preparations, the specifics of battle, etc. may have been removed from these letters
                before they were sent back home. This alone would remove two of our major wartime
                factors that we identified as closely tied to negative emotional responses from our
                data set. Without the prep and battle factors present in our data set, we were left
                with the more ambiguous factors that did not have a strong enough correlation with a
                particular emotional response. This brings us back to the positive trend within our
                data, which we cannot confidently correlate to an actual increase in positivity
                among the mental health of soldiers from the first world war.</p>
            <p>There are far too many outside factors that may have influenced the data to do so.
                Perhaps with a more extensive corpus that covered more of the war as a whole we
                could have found a stronger correlation. However, as our data stands now, we can
                only correlate that the mental wellbeing of soldiers in the first world war
                gradually improved over time, as a majority of the letters reflect a positive trend
                in the emotional factors we were able to identify. </p>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
