<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Letters</title>
        <link rel="Stylesheet" type="text/css" href="letters.css" />
        <script src="website_js.js"></script>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div class="head">
            <h1>Letters From WWI Soldiers</h1>
            <div class="topnav">
                <a href="index.xhtml">Home</a>
                <a href="methodology.xhtml">Methodology</a>
                <a class="active" href="letters.xhtml">Letters</a>
                <a href="analysis.xhtml">Analysis</a>
                <a href="conclusion.xhtml">Conclusion</a>
            </div>
        </div>
        <ul>
            <li class="dropdown">
                <a>1915</a>
                <div class="dropdown-content">
                    <a class="dd" id="ID1">Kerr</a>
                </div>
            </li>
            <li class="dropdown">
                <a class="dropbtn">1916</a>
                <div class="dropdown-content">
                   <a class="dd" id="ID13">Ashton</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID20">Beaumont</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID19">Bullen</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID4">Cronin</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID16">Davies</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID7">Davis</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID2">Douce</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID21">Frost (Aug)</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID26">Frost (Nov)</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID8">Mansbridge</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID15">McGrath (June)</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID18">McGrath (July)</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID22">McGrath (Sept)</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID23">McGrath (Oct)</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID27">McGrath (Nov)</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID10">Pond</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID3">Priestley</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID12">Robertson</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID5">Russell</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID25">Smith, Arthur</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID9">Smith, Sidney</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID17">Turner</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID11">Williams</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID24">Wilson</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID14">Witt</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID6">Woodhams</a>
                </div>
            </li>
            <li class="dropdown">
                <a class="dropbtn">1917</a>
                <div class="dropdown-content">
                   <a class="dd" id="ID38">Andrews</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID31">Beaumont</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID37">Board</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID39">Hart</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID36">Kibblewhite</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID29">Marsh</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID30">McGrath</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID32">Morris</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID33">Secrett</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID34">Sharland</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID28">Skilling</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID35">Staley</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID40">Wiggs</a>
                </div>
            </li>
            <li class="dropdown">
                <a class="dropbtn">1918</a>
                <div class="dropdown-content">
                   <a class="dd" id="ID42">Hyam</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID46">Inglis</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID41">Staley (Apr)</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID43">Staley (May)</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID44">Staley (Jun)</a>
                   <a class="dd" id="ID45">Staley (July)</a>
                </div>
            </li>
            <li class="dropdown">
                <a class="dropbtn">1919</a>
                <div class="dropdown-content">
                   <a class="dd" id="ID47">Lambert</a>
                </div>
            </li>
            <li class="dropdown">
                <a class="dropbtn">1920</a>
                <div class="dropdown-content">
                   <a class="dd" id="ID48">Monaghan</a>
                </div>
            </li>
            <li class="dropdown">
                <a class="dropbtn">Unknown</a>
                <div class="dropdown-content">
                   <a class="dd" id="ID49">Smith</a>
                </div>
            </li>
        </ul>
        <div class="sidebar">
            <h2 class="sidebar_header">I want to find:</h2>
            <h3 class="siderbar_sub_header">Emotion</h3>
            <input xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="checkbox" id="positive"
                name="positive" />
            <label xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" for="positive"><strong style="color:Green;"
                    >Positive</strong></label>
            <br />
            <input xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="checkbox" id="negative"
                name="negative" />
            <label xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" for="negative"><strong style="color:Red;"
                    >Negative</strong></label>
            <br />
            <input xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="checkbox" id="neutral" name="neutral" />
            <label xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" for="neutral"><strong style="color:Yellow;"
                    >Neutral</strong></label>
            <h4 class="sidebar_sub_header">Factors</h4>
            <input xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="checkbox" id="trauma" name="trauma" />
            <label xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" for="trauma"><strong style="color:Orange;"
                    >Trauma</strong></label>
            <br />
            <input xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="checkbox" id="battle" name="battle" />
            <label xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" for="battle"><strong style="color:Purple;"
                    >Battle</strong></label>
            <br />
            <input xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="checkbox" id="prep" name="prep" />
            <label xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" for="prep"><strong style="color:Pink;"
                    >Prep</strong></label>
            <br />
            <input xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="checkbox" id="conditions"
                name="conditions" />
            <label xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" for="conditions"><strong style="color:Blue;"
                    >Conditions</strong></label>
            <br />
            <input xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="checkbox" id="sense" name="sense" />
            <label xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" for="sense"><strong
                    style="color:Aquamarine;">Sense</strong></label>
            <br />
        </div>
        <!--==============================================================================================================-->
        <!-- Adding the letter corpus, as of 12/08 - letters have updated Schematron regulated dates                      -->
        <!--==============================================================================================================-->
      <div class="special_container" id="letter1">
         <section>
            
            <header>
               <h1>Unknown, August 6th</h1>
            </header>
            
            <p><span class="positive">Things have been very quiet hear the last week, <span class="battle">with the exception of a little shell fire both from the Turks and our own
                     guns.</span></span>
               <span class="battle">The night before last our fellows made a charge on our right flank and
                  took two line of trenches. first of all they blew up the Turks trenches and then charged
                  before the dust had time to settle. They cut off the Turks in one trench and the others
                  run for their lives leaving their rifles behind. They are afraid to face the cold
                  steel.</span>
               <span class="neutral">We expect to have some excitement in a few days, things are too quiet
                  to last, but I suppose you will read about it in the Australian papers.</span> Well Aub
               I must say good-bye.Remember me to Jim. </p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>From your loving brother</h2>
               
               Harold
               
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter2">
         <section>
            
            <p> Sydney Charles Douce, January 1916, Fovant Camp, Wiltshire. Born: 17 November 1882,
               Joined GWR: 28 November 1898, Regiment: 1/5 London Regiment; 3rd Battalion London
               Rifle
               Brigade; Royal Army Medical Corps, Regiment number: 3701; 202204; 536657, Rank: Private,
               Died: 1933. Transcript</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>Fovant Camp, Wiltshire, January 1st</h1>
               <h2>Dear</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p><span class="negative">The worst has happened.</span> The War Office has sent us down to
               this place which is miles from nowhere. The camp however is made up of hundreds of
               huts is
               according to the 'old uns' at the game the finest they have ever been in, <span class="positive">certainly everything is alright</span> but <span class="conditions">
                  the place is so muddy and my time is split up. One half getting frightfully dirty
                  and
                  the other getting myself clean again.</span>
               <span class="positive">However it's all in the game and can't be helped.</span>
               <span class="conditions">There are twenty to a hut. The beds are three long boards on two
                  trestles about eight or nine inches off the floor, a straw mattress and a straw pillow,
                  and four blankets. Not a bit what I have been used to.</span>
               <span class="positive">However I am now quite comfortable in it and sleep like a top.
                  Marvellous how you think we settle down to it. Don't you think?</span>
               <span class="prep">We rise at 6.30am. Breakfast (porridge and bacon) at 7.30. Parade at
                  8.20. Drill till 10.30. Then half an hour's rest. Then more drill up to 12.30. Dinner
                  at
                  1 o'clock (meat and two vegetables and sweets). Parade again at 2.20. Then more drill
                  which brings us up to 4pm. We are then dismissed for the day. Tea at 5pm (bread, butter
                  and jam). After which we can do what we like until 9.15. By this time we have to be
                  in
                  our huts for the final day's roll call and at 10pm. All lights have to be out. That's
                  what my day consists of at present.</span>
               <span class="neutral">It may not seem much, and really it isn't, but I am half the day
                  cleaning up.</span> The grub is alright but there is not quite enough of it at present.
               <span class="positive">I think however this will be right as soon as they have made all
                  necessary arrangements.</span>
               <span class="sense">For the time being the Non-Commissioned Officers seem to be a little
                  overworked.</span>
               <span class="prep">This is the same every day, varied on two mornings a week with a long
                  route march in the morning. Of course we only have half a day on Saturday and only
                  a
                  Church parade on Sunday.</span>
               <span class="positive">So altogether things are not so bad.</span>
               <span class="negative">The only thing is I can't get away for weekends, as it would take up
                  most of the time to travel to London and back.</span> I shall try however and run up to
               town in a few weeks' time if possible.Kind regards to all at 'Omega', and everybody
               at 164,
               W.1, including, yourself.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours,</h2>
               
               S.C.D.
               
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter3">
         <section>
            
            <p></p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>unkown, January 1st</h1>
               <h2>My Dear Parents,</h2>
            </header>
            
            
            <p>I am writing this on the evening of the first day of the new year. <span class="prep">We
                  came into the trenches (an emergency call)</span> the day before yesterday, but we are
               in the reserve trenches, not the firing line. I am writing this in my dugout (about
               two feet
               high and five feet long) by the miserable light of a guttering, little bit of candle.
               Soon
               it will go out, and then (for it’s only 5.30 and a wild night) come the long, long
               dark
               hours until ‘stand to’ in the morning.</p>
            
            
            <p> Last night, old year’s night, was <span class="negative">a nightmare evening</span>. At 1
               o’clock, the troops in the front line made two <span class="battle">bomb attacks</span>
               on the German front line, and we’d to support them. For an hour, it was literally
               hell upon
               earth. I had to spend most of the time crouched in the mud by the side of a machine
               gun. It
               was going nearly all the time, and the <span class="sense">noise nearly stunned me, then
                  the sickly smell of cordite</span>, and the dense masses of steam from the water
               cooler didn’t improve matters. Both our artillery and theirs were going for all they
               were
               worth, and they lit up the sky. You could see some of the shells going through the
               air,
               swift, red streaks. Then an <span class="battle">incessant stream of bullets from both
                  sides, bombs, trench mortars, making a hellish din</span>, and the sky lit up with a
               mad medley of shells, searchlights, star lights, the green and red rockets (used for
               signalling purposes); just about an hour of hell, and that was our introduction to
               the year
               of 1916! This morning I learned that we lost about 80 men and several officers, so
               that it
               cost us pretty dearly. </p>
            
            
            <p> I enjoyed the parcel hugely, and the pudding was splendid! Please thank Mrs What’s-her-name
               for her kind gift. It is very comfortable. I’m afraid that you would hardly recognise
               me if
               you saw me now. <span class="conditions">It is three days since I had a shave, and two
                  since I had a wash. I’m a mask of mud. My hair is matted</span>, and I resemble an
               Australian beachcomber.</p>
            
            
            <p> This is morning of Jan. 2nd. We go into the firing line this afternoon for four days.
               By the
               way, if you can get hold of any old paperbacked sixpenny novels (such as Jacobs, Stanley
               Weyman – light stuff) please send some in your next parcel. No magazines; there’s
               not enough
               reading matter and the quality is bad. Only old copies, you know, don’t buy new ones.</p>
            
            
            <p>I saw a tin the other day, labelled Mackintosh’s Chocolate Toffee de Luxe. It sounds
               so weird
               that I’d like some if you can procure any, please!</p>
            
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours affectionately,</h2>
               
               Jack P.
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter4">
         <section>
            
            
            <p>Harold William Cronin, 18 January 1916, Egypt. Born: 9 May 1880, Regiment: 4th Seaforth
               Highlanders; promoted to Lieutenant in 5th Bedfordshire Regiment on 20 May 1915, Died:
               2
               December 1917 at 35 Casualty Clearing Station in Palestine, leaving 268 19s to his
               widow
               Transcript </p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>Egypt, January 18th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Mr Welsh,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>A lot has happened since I last wrote to you and <span class="prep">we have moved, and
                  moved, and moved again, and still we are moving. There is nothing at all to say about
                  the actual coming off. We were told to pack up, and having done so, were marched off
                  and
                  oon afterwards were making up a four for Bridge in quite a comfortable cabin and
                  enjoying the unwanted luxury of electric light</span>.</p>
            
            <p><span class="neutral">The only thing that struck one in coming away was that nothing had
                  altered and it might easily have been the night I landed. The same old beach apparently
                  full up with boxes of bully beef, tinned milk and jam, <span class="battle">the same
                     old destroyer, with its search light playing on the shore, keeping up its systematic
                     bombardment and the same old swish of bullets around and dropping into the
                     water.</span></span>
               <span class="prep">No sooner was Christmas here than we were packing up again, to come on
                  here.</span> A large town a few miles on the interior, <span class="negative"><span class="sense">it is a filthy rotten smelly hole</span> and we always carried loaded
                  revolvers and walked about in batches and were never out after dark. Probably the
                  people
                  are not ill disposed to us but some of them looked pretty villainous and it was better
                  to be on the safe side</span>.</p>
            
            <p><span class="positive">We have had quite a good time and the regular hours and regular meals
                  have backed everyone up well and now we are all as fit as ever apparently.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>Thanks very much for the Xmas card <span class="negative">it was a bit late but then all our
                  Xmas letters and parcels were on account of the way we have been moving about; we
                  lost a
                  good mail, too, on the Persia (S.S. Persia, which was torpedoed and sunk in December
                  1915).</span> I am enclosing a few photos that might be of interest to you. I have some
               more snaps coming later on and will let you have some if they turn out to be any good.
               With
               kind regards.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours sincerely,</h2>
               
               H.W. Cronin
               
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter5">
         <section>
            
            <p>Born: 30 March 1883, Regiment: Railway Troop, Royal Engineers, Regiment number: 138053,
               Rank:
               Sapper, Died: 1965  Editorial Note: last paragraph transcribed by AMC, not by UK Archivists.</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>France, February 4th</h1>
               <h2>My Dear Bertie</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p> I am pleased to say I am still in the same job and getting to understand the run
               of things. It
               is very interesting work, as you would imagine. It is a real line here, sometimes
               <span class="prep">we are pushed and carry on till the early hours of the morning</span>. I might say
               there is <span class="neutral">no grumbling about tea money, overtime or bonus quotas</span>
               putting in as much as eighteen hours a day sometimes and it would not do to send deputations
               to
               the chief who is also hard at it, in his room; there is a special way of dealing with
               such in the
               army.</p>
            
            
            <p>Of course one never knows how long this may last I may have marching orders to proceed
               elsewhere
               any day. Each day is absolutely a day unto itself here. We dont count tomorrow.</p>
            
            
            <p>I see you have been visited with a blizzard, we also have had <span class="conditions">a severe
                  touch of winter</span> and at the present moment it is snowing hard outside. The shutters are
               closed and the work is being carried on by lamplight, this is necessary owing to the
               glass having
               recently left the windows in small fragments some souvenirs [shells] having called
               upon us. When
               the weather is fine we are fresh air fiends now both day and night except that we
               close the
               shutters when snowing or raining. The latter it is often doing.</p>
            
            
            <p>There are hosts of interesting things I could write you about but these will do later
               on when I
               have the pleasure of seeing you. Lieut. Duntons crowd was hereabouts, but I did not
               run up against
               him.</p>
            
            
            <p>I suppose the Derby* entries have commenced to run now. I met another GW fellow the
               other day,
               Sergeant Gregory, a Slough fellow. I think George Jones would know him. I have seen
               this fellow at
               Paddington but did not know him to speak to.</p>
            
            
            <p> I had a letter from Longmoor Camp. Must correct information. J. Higgs is in the Railway
               Transport Engineers with another friend of mine, Watton of Windsor who was in the
               Finance
               office</p>
            
            
            <p>Has Charlie Millcox come over this side of the water yet? I am looking out for him
               on all the
               transport wagons. I may run him down some day. Perhaps [he'll] be pleased to hear
               from him when
               you have the time. </p>
            
            <footer class="letter"></footer>
            
            
            <footer class="letter">p.s.C/o A.D.R.T. SOUTHERN RAILHEADS BER FRANCE will find me.</footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter6">
         <section>
            
            <p>Frederick G. Woodhams, 16 February 1916, France. Regiment: 13 London Rifles, Regiment
               number: 1383, Rank: Private; Lance Corporal; Sergeant, Died: Killed in action on 16
               August
               1917, having been struck by shrapnel; prior to this, he had been wounded twice. These
               are
               typed extracts of a letter that Frederick Woodhams had written to his family (RAIL
               253/516).
               Below that is an article from the Illustrated London News, 1915 (ZPER 34/146s9</p>
            
            
            <header>
               <h1>France, February 16th</h1>
               <h2>--</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>The last time I wrote I think I told you <span class="neutral">we had lost our comfortable
                  job on railheads.</span> We have been shifted from General Headquarters and are at the
               <span class="negative">most godforsaken hole there can possibly be in France.</span> <span class="negative">We had a
                  rotten journey <span class="conditions">raining</span> all the time.</span>
               Reveille* was at 4am and we eventually left the station about 10am. The accommodation
               consisted of the <span class="conditions">old cattle trucks</span>, and <span class="conditions">rations of bully and biscuits</span>. It was a <span class="sense">very cold and uncomfortable journey</span>.</p>
            
            
            <p>We arrived at our destination about 4.30pm and after standing in the <span class="conditions">rain</span> for 2 hours with full pack on, we set out on a <span class="prep">ten mile march</span>. <span class="negative">Its the worst march Ive ever
                  done.</span> The majority of us at the finish were absolutely knocked up and were only
               too glad to crawl into the billets before going to bed, which was about 12pm. They
               gave us a
               <span class="conditions">mug of tea</span> (the first we had since six in the
               morning) and best of all a <span class="conditions">ration of rum</span>.</p>
            
            
            <p>The up to date soldier kit to carry about from place to place consists of 150 rounds
               of
               ammunition, <span class="sense">inside the pack; overcoat, fur coat, two pairs socks, one pants, one shirt,
                  ground sheet, iron rations [emergency food supply]</span>. <span class="sense">Outside pack; Mackintosh and mess tin,
                  in haversack; cleaning kit, hold all, 24lbs rations, soap and towel, and on top of
                  that
                  extras such as handkerchiefs, plate, mug, tobacco, etc, two smoke helmets* in a satchel
                  slung over the shoulder, a respirator in the left flap of a tunic and field dressing
                  on the
                  right, and of course the rifle,</span> <span class="negative">in all its no light weight on a long
                  march</span>, it takes all ones strength and staying power to keep going. </p>
            
            
            <p>We are billeted in a barn and have <span class="conditions">a sea of mud</span> to get
               through. We have no boards, <span class="conditions">so sleep on the ground</span>, fires
               are not allowed in the billet and at night time its <span class="conditions">devilish
                  cold</span>.</p>
            
            <p>In the village there is a <span class="sense">little general shop</span> (now nearly sold
               out), one pub where they sell something they charge 2d for and call beer, there are
               no shops
               of any description and of course no amusements.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="negative">Rations are not so good now</span> (todays dinner, Sunday, bully
               beef, stew and two potatoes between 35 men. We have a loaf and a bit (small loaf)
               and two
               tins of jam between seven men, the <span class="conditions">short bread issue</span>
               being augmented by the <span class="conditions">world famous army biscuits</span>.</p>
            
            
            <p>Our captain is a perfect gentleman and about the most popular man in the regiment,
               the junior
               captain (an absolute sport) and the platoon officers are all very decent sort of fellows.
               <span class="positive">We appear to be much better off in this respect than
                  before</span>, and certainly think that D. Co. has got as good a selection of officers
               as any other company in the battalion. One of our fellows ran across a number of Audit
               R.E.s
               and they enquired after Maggs and myself. </p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               Freddy 
               </footer>
            
            <footer class="letter">p.s.or Whats left of him after some very stiff marching.</footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter7">
         <section>
            
            <p>William Charles Davis, 15 March 1916, France. Born: 12 November 1884, Joined GWR:
               12
               January 1900, Regiment: Royal Army Medical Corps, Regiment number: 31223, Rank: Lance
               Corporal; Sergeant, Retired: 1944 Transcript Sunday</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>France, March 15th</h1>
               <h2>Dear </h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>How are things going with you now? I expect like the rest of us will be glad when
               the better
               weather sets in for there is no doubt about it, <span class="conditions">it has been rough
                  lately.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>Since I last wrote to you<span class="prep"> we have shifted to another part of the
                  line</span><span class="battle">and it is a warm shop, for both sides must have all
                  guns they can find and it is nothing but one long duel all day and every day but thank
                  goodness it gives over a bit a night so that one can get on with their work. You see
                  of
                  a night the flashes of the guns can be seen so plainly that is why they do not fire
                  a
                  lot then.</span>
               </p>
            
            
            <p><span class="negative">Just on our right our people retook some trenches we had lost, oh what
                  a rough time the poor devils had, <span class="conditions">snow and mud as much as you
                     like</span> and they had to lay in it for two days and grub could not be got to
                  them.</span> I expect there have been a few more from Paddington called up by now, it
               seems if the authorities mean to have all the men they want and if they can't get
               them one
               way they will another, and it certainly looks as if they will be wanted for out here.
               <span class="negative">One cannot see any signs of an early settlement.</span> I see by the
               papers that the air raids have been busy in England again. I suppose you have not
               seen
               anything of them yet, has Rory Moore had any more frights? <span class="negative"> We have
                  the taubes [German aircraft] over our hospital nearly every day or night and I can
                  tell
                  you we got some starts at times.</span><span class="battle">The nearest we have to
                  them since I have been here is just one yard from the main door, at 12.30 it blew
                  in two
                  pairs of double doors and shattered on end of the building to bits but not a great
                  deal
                  of damage to life which after all is the main thing.</span> The arrangements we in
               work is five or six days up the line and four or five down if you are lucky. <span class="negative">Of course at times these arrangements go to pot when there is an attack
                  and we get a warm time and I should like to enlarge on these things but of course
                  you
                  understand I cannot.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>Give my kind regards to all and trusting you are well. </p>
            
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours </h2>
               
               Will
               
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter8">
         <section>
            
            <header>
               <h1>France, March 17th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Gerald,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>No doubt, perhaps you had thought I had forgotten old friends at Paddington, but such
               is not
               the case. We so not have much spare time for letter writing now. To tell you of all
               our
               adventures since we left England would take too long here to relate but I will save
               for when
               I come home. Perhaps you have heard, we were only at Farnborough four days, before
               we were
               sent over there. By God, old chap we did have a time of it, the first fortnight. Living
               on
               bully beef and biscuits, <span class="prep">travelling day and night and sleeping
                  anywhere</span> and doing long tramps with full kit on nearly done us in as we had no
               training. We managed to stick it through, but I thought poor Percy Smith would have
               to give
               in as he was very queer with toothache. The first six weeks we moved about from place
               to
               place <span class="prep">doing all sorts of fatigue work</span>, bar our own. Lambert,
               Smith, Collins and myself are now settled down in H the place where Mr Lakers son
               was so
               long at. Collins and Lambert have been fortunate enough to get temporary clerical
               work
               during the last months. </p>
            
            <p>I was promised one when on the 17th of last month <span class="negative">I was <span class="trauma">wounded</span> by a <span class="battle">bomb</span></span> from
               a taube which landed clean through our billet at 12 oclock at night, when we were
               all sound
               asleep. I caught it in the thigh, but luckily it was only a flesh wound, but <span class="negative">I had some <span class="trauma">awful bruises</span> from the
                  debris</span> which fell on it. I have been in hospital ever since at the base, but I
               am pleased to say <span class="positive">I am now nearly well again</span> and in a
               convalescent camp three miles from there, overlooking the sea. We are not allowed
               to put our
               address at the heading of a letter so I will put it here:</p>
            
            <p> 2AM /W.P. Mansbridge No.16929, Royal Flying Corps No. G 21 Hut no. 6 Convalescent
               Depot,
               A.P.O. S.17, British Expeditionary Force. After I am discharged from here, I shall
               be sent
               up to the base and then up the line with the best of luck as the Tommies say out here.
               I am
               hoping to get back to H as I was so happy and with such decent fellows there, but
               I dont
               think it probable. Lambert, Smith and myself, often used to talk of old times and
               wondered
               how things were at Paddington. I daresay Gerald, there are not many young fellows
               left in
               the Audit are there, has Mr Horsley gone? Do drop me a line when you have time, as
               I assure
               you old boy, it is a real treat to hear Paddington news. <span class="positive">I have never
                  felt in better health</span>, army life certainly agrees with me also with Lambert.
               Billy Button is at headquarters, got a cushy job. I believe I saw him once there,
               but I have
               no idea where the other G.W. fellows are. I am afraid I am not very fluent with my
               French
               yet, I could have done with your services on several occasions. How are Mr Slater
               and other
               members of the Stats. (or is that department disbanded?) Please remember kindly to
               them.
               (Lines censored) Cannot stop to write more now as I am just off to a concert in the
               Y.M.C.A.
               hut in the camp here.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours very sincerely</h2>
               Dick Mansbridge
               </footer>
            
            <footer class="letter">p.s.P.S. I am only about 12 miles from where you used to go to, so perhaps you can guess
               the place I am at, E- s. [Etaples]. Do you ever hear anything of the other boys out
               here?</footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter9">
         <section>
            
            <p>Sidney Smith, 19 March 1916, France. Born: 20 October 1881, Regiment: Railway Operatives
               Division, Royal Engineers, Regiment number: 218849, Rank: Sapper, Returned to office:
               19 May
               1919, Retired: 20 October 1941</p>
            
            
            <header>
               <h1>March 19th</h1>
               <h2>My Dear Elton and all,</h2>
            </header>
            
            
            <p>I expect you are wondering why I have never written since leaving England. Well the
               fact is I
               have never had a chance for <span class="neutral">it has been a Cooks Tour since I was last with you.gi</span> Perhaps I
               had better try and give you some idea of my adventures from the time we last met.
               It was not
               many hours after seeing you all that we were dispatched for France. We landed at a
               town
               <span class="positive">after a nice long trip.</span> <span class="negative">At this spot, a rest camp so called,</span> we spent about a week. What
               with <span class="prep">parades</span> in the daytime for various reasons and <span class="prep">employed at the docks</span> all night,
               <span class="prep">unloading flour</span> was the job that came my way <span class="negative">you can imagine the rest we had.</span> However we
               then went on to another base and here owing to <span class="trauma">illness</span>, we were all <span class="conditions">isolated</span> for ten days
               and no letters could be sent. Within a day or two of being released from this I alone
               of all
               our boys was packed off to another depot so that was the last I have seen for the
               time being
               of our crowd, and have been on my own since. After a couple of nights at this depot
               I was
               sent to a point to <span class="prep">get experience in the work</span> I came here for. <span class="positive">This turned out to be the
                  best thing I had touched</span> for the staff were billeted out and I slept in a <span class="conditions">feather bed</span> which
               was great for it was <span class="conditions">under canvas</span>.<span class="positive">I soon found out that my luck was in and that happiness and comfort would be my lot</span> whilst
               there. <span class="negative">Alas my dream was soon dispelled</span>, and after a week of civilised existence, I was sent
               for by the depot. After another 48 hours there I was sent away again to some other
               spot, but
               en route, was detained at a rest camp for two days, apparently owing to the <span class="conditions">absence of 
                  trains</span> to the point I was going.</p>
            
            
            <p>Covered vans are used here to convey soldiers about. Strange to say the actual truck
               I made
               this last journey in I saw again the next day <span class="sense">loaded with sick horses</span>, so being used for any
               purpose you can guess they cannot be compared to the carriages in which we made our
               daily
               trips to town and back. To continue my travels, the next day I was sent to the point
               I am
               now writing from, and which I think will be my residence for some little time as I
               have now
               taken up <span class="prep">regular duties</span>. <span class="negative">It is a terrible, Godforsaken and desolate spot.</span> There is naught to
               be seen except <span class="battle">shell holes</span> and <span class="negative"><span class="conditions">rats</span> and these latter are an abomination.</span> <span class="neutral">There is little to
                  be heard here at night except <span class="battle">gun fire</span> and <span class="conditions">rats</span> and one soon gets used to both.</span> I went to a
               village, the nearest here, about two miles away, on Sunday last and <span class="negative">it was really an awful
                  sight to see how it had been smashed by <span class="battle">shell fire</span>.</span> You can now I trust realise the reason
               for my not writing before, in fact I have only written to my wife and father, and
               have only
               received one letter from each of them and that was a few days ago. I can tell you
               that <span class="neutral">I
                  hunger for news of home</span> after being here a month without a word. It is also almost <span class="negative">impossible
                  to buy anything for there is nowhere to get it.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>I trust all is well with everyone at 164 and that poor old Sid is alright again. If
               Miss
               Welshs little affair has come off I wish her the very best of luck and trust she will
               have
               all happiness. Please write to me soon some of you. Lots of luck, and good wishes
               to you all. </p>
            
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Your old pal,</h2>
               
               Sid
               
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter10">
         <section>
            
            <p>Born: 13 September 1888, Joined GWR: 19 May 1904, Regiment: Railway Troop, Royal
               Engineers, Regiment number: 87749, Rank: Sapper, Died: Killed in action on 6 May 1917</p>
            
            
            <p>Montague Percy Pond</p>
            
            
            <header>
               <h1>France, April 5th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Mr Hunt,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>I was very pleased to receive your letter for which many thanks. It took nearly a
               fortnight
               to reach me as I have changed about a good deal lately from one division to another
               and it
               has followed me around. I am pleased to say <span class="positive">I am still keeping very
                  fit</span> and going on in about the same way. I think the last time I wrote we were
               living in trucks. Well we have now moved into huts about ten feet square, which are
               <span class="conditions">very comfortable</span> although not quite as large as the trucks.
               They are well built and stand about a foot from the ground so keep very dry. We have
               two of
               them, one which we use as an office and the other to sleep and live in. We also have
               a tent
               which we use for keeping kits etc. in, but we shall probably sleep in it when the
               weather is
               a bit warmer.</p>
            
            <p>We have had some <span class="conditions">lovely weather</span> lately, quite like summer
               but rather cold at night. We had a great deal of snow last month also plenty of rain
               and
               wind, and were over the tops of our boots in mud. We are stationed at a very small
               village
               which stands very high (about 600 feet above sea level) you can guess it is a bit
               breezy at
               times. It is a one-eyed hole with only two cafes and no shops. We have all our meals
               cooked
               at one of the cafes, and <span class="positive">we live very well</span> although there is
               not very much variation in the menu. I have managed to have one or two musical evenings
               lately. The fiddle I bought appears to be a fairly good one but my fingers are not
               quite so
               nimble as they were. I am afraid I shall have to put in a month or twos practice before
               I
               get back to where I was before I came out here. Glad to hear you have taken it up
               again. We
               shall be able to get a band for our next lamb dinner whenever that will be.</p>
            
            <p>Things do not seem to make much of a move round this way. We get plenty of aeroplanes
               over
               and see a good many fights in the air. There have also been a good many <span class="battle">shells dropped not very far away from us</span>, but we have managed to
               dodge them so far although, one of our fellows, who comes from the Midland Railway
               and who I
               worked with for some time, has been wounded and sent to base. There is only one G.W.
               man
               anywhere near me as far as I know and that is Colcott from Chief Goods Managers Office
               but
               he is some distance away and I hadnt seen much of him. I was surprised to hear that
               Morris
               had gone into the R.F.C. (Royal Flying Corps) after being rejected for the Infantry.
               I was
               also surprised and sorry to hear about Jack Symons. I had heard nothing about it.
               How did it
               happen? It must be very quiet at the office now with so many gone. (Censored line).
               As you
               say it is quite a change from the old days. I have not yet come across any of those
               who
               joined the R.E. (Royal Engineers) Transport lately. Did you know that Arthur Watton
               has
               joined?</p>
            
            
            <p>We had a concert party belonging to one of the divisions stationed round here, staying
               in the
               village last week, and they gave us a show two nights running. They had a proper stage
               with
               scenery and footlights, everything complete. <span class="positive">They were very good
                  indeed</span>. The programme consisted of songs, sentimental and otherwise, also a
               Sketch and some Charlie Chaplin pictures which were very laughable as usual. Well,
               I dont
               think I can tell you much more at present. Please remember me to all at the office.</p>
            
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Kind regards, Yours sincerely,</h2>
               M.P. Pond
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter11">
         <section>
            
            <p>Gilbert Williams, 6 April 1916, France. Born: 18 April 1894, Regiment: 1/6 Seaforth
               Highlanders, Regiment number: 2175, Rank: Private, Died: 1967. Note: Williams also
               fought in
               Second World War returned from war on 15 November 1948</p>
            
            
            <header>
               <h1>France, April 6th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Mr Hunt,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Thanks very much for your letter which I received a week or two ago, also for the
               magazine.</p>
            
            
            <p>We are in the <span class="battle">trenches</span> just now. In fact <span class="negative">we seem to spend about three times as much time in as we do out.</span>
               Also we are in a pretty <span class="battle">warm spot</span>, it was about here, towards
               the end of last summer that the French and German had some of the fiercest fighting
               of the
               war. The country around about is a <span class="battle">veritable maze of
                  trenches</span>. <span class="negative">The fighting at one time was so fierce that there
                  was only time just to bury the dead</span> in the sides of the trenches, and now that
               the <span class="conditions">trenches have crumpled</span> one is constantly <span class="sense">seeing the bones of mens legs or their boots</span>, or <span class="sense">skulls</span> sticking out from the sides of the trenches, pleasant, eh?
               <span class="negative">There will be a pleasant smell here in the summer.</span>
               <span class="neutral">I only hope we are not here then.</span> In places we are only about
               twenty yards away from Fritz and company. Consequently all times the air is pretty
               thick
               with <span class="battle">bombs</span>, <span class="battle">grenades</span> and
               <span class="battle">trench mortars.</span> These last are pretty hellish sort of
               toys. They have <span class="sense">an explosion like about ten earthquakes</span> rolled
               into one. <span class="negative">But even these are not the worst we have to put up
                  with.</span> The trenches being so close together there is of course any amount of
               <span class="battle">mining</span> going on. <span class="neutral">So one never knows
                  when the particular lump of earth one is standing on is going to take a trip through
                  the
                  solar regions.</span> When a <span class="battle">mine</span> does go up, <span class="negative">there is some excitement knocking about I can tell you.</span> Suppose
               for instance we were going to explode one, all the <span class="battle">artillery</span>
               in the neighbourhood is ranged on the spot and directly the <span class="battle">mine is
                  exploded</span>, there is hell let loose on the crater. Of course as soon as he gets
               the range the <span class="battle">enemy replies</span>, so that <span class="sense">the
                  air is fairly full of everything that kills quickly</span>. <span class="negative">One
                  can on these occasions always rely on a good many casualties.</span> Since we have been
               in this spasm there have been <span class="battle">five exploded</span> in this
               neighbourhood, while others are expected to go up at any time. <span class="neutral">So much
                  for conditions here.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>How is everything in town? Pretty quiet I suppose. I see youve had the zepps (Zeppelins)
               over
               again? Is it a fact that one dropped in the Thames? (Lines censored.) That is about
               all the
               news, so will close, kindest regards to everybody.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours very sincerely,</h2>
               Gilbert Williams
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter12">
         <section>
            
            <p>Born: 5 January 1877, Regiment: Railway Troop, Royal Engineers, Regiment number: 138054,
               Rank: Sapper, Returned to office: 5 May 1919</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>Salonika, Greece., April 21st</h1>
               <h2>Dear Mr Wood,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Just a few lines to let you know I arrived safely after visiting several places which
               I am
               not allowed to mention. <span class="sense">This place is quite oriental</span> as the fronts of the houses are for the
               most part looked after and kept in repair, while the backs are allowed to go, and
               it gives
               one a shock to see a fine building in the front, and then to go to the back and see
               it all
               neglected and ready to fall down. It is <span class="conditions">very hot here during the day and the swarms of flies
                  and mosquitoes keep one very busy</span> and I <span class="negative">dread</span> to think what it will be like in the summer.
               It seems strange to see oxen drawing carts and donkeys with packs on, but it is a
               very
               common sight here. I sometimes have to go to the big steamers in a small pinnace [ships
               boat] and when it is rough it requires some nerve to walk along the sides of barges
               that are
               pitching and tossing and then climb up the ships side by a rope ladder, but it comes
               easier
               in time. It is<span class="sense"> very mountainous here</span>, and <span class="positive">we get a very fine view of Mount Olympus and the
                  snow-capped peaks.</span> I had to go by motor up country the other day and I had to grip the side
               of the car as <span class="conditions">the roads are awful</span> and sometimes there is only just room for the car to
               travel and a sheer drop on the other side. The labourers at the docks are Greeks and
               when
               they are taken on in the mornings <span class="neutral">it is a regular Babel till the Military Policeman <span class="sense">uses his
                     persuader (truncheon)</span> right and left and that calms them somewhat.</span> I have not met Mr Cox's
               son yet but should I do so I will make myself known to him. I have had to revert to
               sapper
               again as there are not sufficient men of our staff for us to remain N.C.O.s but if
               it is
               brought up to strength I am promised them again. The first person I saw here was Gray
               of the
               Stats (Statistical Department), and we are working together. Trusting that you are
               quite
               well and with kindest regards to Messrs Cox, Slater, Rogers and Hunt.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Am yours obediently,</h2>
               D.J. Robertson
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter13">
         <section>
            
            <p> Teddy Ashton, May 6th, 1916 Sailor stationed in Russian Lapland source:
               https://www.iwm.org.uk/history/letters-to-loved-ones</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>Russian Lapland, May 6th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Gertie,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p> I have written two or three times recently so you may get them together. <span class="negative">We have been very busy for the last few weeks and have got through a
                  great amount of work.</span>
               <span class="positive">We are much better off again as regards potatoes and other food
                  stuffs for we have had a great quantity of stores.</span> I fancy we shall be here for
               a time yet anyway it looks like it with such a quantity of stores aboard. You will
               see I am
               telling you the same things over and over again.<span class="negative"> At least I know I
                  have told you them once or twice but everything about is all of a sameness kind of
                  thing.</span>
               <span class="sense">Ships here there and everywhere now.</span> But soon we shall have a
               move that is when we can get through the White Sea. We shall have to look after all
               the
               shipping. <span class="conditions">The snow is fast disappearing now.</span> I came
               across an article in a paper the other day about this district and it said that 14
               or 15
               years ago bears used to roam around hear [sic], but <span class="sense">there seems to be
                  nothing around now excepting the wild fowl, which are very numorous.</span> I believe
               salmon are numerous at certain times of the year. The 2nd and 3rd of May we had a
               <span class="negative">terrific</span>
               <span class="conditions">snow blizzard.</span> We should have left the ship to go away
               and do some work on another ship but <span class="negative">we could not get away from our
                  ship <span class="conditions">it was so rough</span></span>. <span class="sense">
                  We have no night now, the sun goes down but it never goes dark, it is eternally
                  daylight.</span> Of course I told you we have had an entire change round and I have a
               new job now, part of the ship. <span class="positive">I have not half the time I used to
                  have but I enjoy the robust work much better and I get to see much more with working
                  away.</span> We get up at 6.30 and work until 1.00 so we put a few hours in don't we.
               That is when we are working away. Did you get the £1-0-0 I remitted? Let me know.
               I have
               remitted another £3-0-0 this month. Let me know if you receive this also. I shall
               probably
               send a little more next month or later. Don't hold the paper money. Bank it or keep
               it by
               you in gold until I come home. Tell Dad I shall to him as soon as I can get enough
               to tell
               him about. Give my best love to everyone at home, I often think about you all.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>I am yours ever,</h2>
               
                Ted.
               
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter14">
         <section>
            
            <p>Francis Witt, 28 May 1916, Salonika, Greece. Born: 8 February 1893, Regiment: Royal
               Engineers, Mediterranean Expeditionary Force; transferred to Office of Superintendent
               of
               Line on 15 June 1914, Regiment number: 138069; WR296343, Rank: Sapper, Died: 1970</p>
            
            
            <header>
               <h1>France, May 28th</h1>
               <h2>Dear G. [Mr Burgoyne],</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>I guess you wonder what has become of me after this long silence, but you will see
               I am a
               good distance away from the homeland now. I arrived here early in April and <span class="positive">since the start
                  have been getting on quite well.</span> You may be interested to know that Gray from your
               department is also here. It is rather strange that I should rub against him.</p>
            
            
            <p>The <span class="conditions">weather is brilliant</span>, cloudless skies day after day, but it is <span class="conditions">very hot</span>. There are plenty
               of <span class="conditions">mosquitoes</span> about. They are very tantalising. A net is practically a necessity for
               sleeping purposes. I am <span class="conditions">billeted in a warehouse</span>, it is a <span class="sense">very old place</span>, and has stood
               hundreds of years. I should think, according to its general appearance.</p>
            
            
            <p>I have not picked up the lingo yet, but French is chiefly spoken, and <span class="neutral">I much regret not
                  having studied it more when I had the opportunity at home.</span> This town is a queer sort of
               place as compared with some of the French towns we know, and am sure <span class="negative">I shall not wish to see
                  it again when once I leave.</span> The cafs are not so gay as the French, but <span class="positive">I manage to have fun
                  occasionally.</span> We have got a <span class="sense">piano and gramophone</span> to amuse ourselves with. I hope we shall be
               able to have another trip to Paris, when the war has cleared up, but of course when
               is a
               question nobody can answer yet awhile. Shall be very pleased to hear some news of
               you, and
               conclude now with all the best.</p>
            
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours sincerely,</h2>
                Frank
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter15">
         <section>
            
            <header>
               <h1>June 8th</h1>
               <h2>My dear old Jack &amp; Clare,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p> Got your (Jacks) letter of 23 April to day &amp; got one from Clare a couple of weeks
               ago. Well Im glad to see that things are all well so far. Very sorry to hear about
               Ted
               &amp; I hope he has fully recovered by this. Also that he was not out of work long
               through it all. My word the kidlets must be growing. I suppose they are "some" handful
               by now. Hope the Arbitration award panned out satisfactorily to all concerned. Give
               my
               love to Ede Al &amp; all of the folk. Uncle Will wrote &amp; told me they had had a
               splendid trip up you way as far as Mt Morgan. He was then off to Mildura for a few
               days.
               I wrote you all a post card last week. Remember me to Bob Anderson &amp; tell him Ill
               write shortly. My word the works must be like old times with all those hands up there.
               <span class="conditions">I am out in the desert</span> still &amp; at present
               with another officer &amp; two troops stationed well out. <span class="positive">We are
                  having a glorious time</span> as far as soldiering goes, and appear to be quite
               safe from any attacks. Of course everyone wants something to happen, but that sort
               of
               skite comes from the new bloods. All the old hands recognise the good wicket they
               are on
               &amp; say nix.</p>
            
            
            <p>Our horses are in good nick &amp; get well looked after. <span class="neutral">The <span class="conditions">desert sun is very hot</span> but
                  we have managed to get a little shelter rigged here</span> &amp; there, which proves a great
               boon. Rations are good as can be &amp; we are having a real good turn. Of course weve
               earned it. Ive got three splendid nags &amp; you can bet were good pals. Ive picked up
               a
               good knowledge of horses here &amp; do some enjoyable rides. We are too far from the
               canal for swimming but will get a turn there bye &amp; bye. There have been one or two
               stunts of which the papers will have published in detail ere this. A week or so ago
               an
               aeroplane flew over one of the L.H. camps &amp; <span class="battle">dropped fifteen bombs</span> accounting for 9
               men &amp; 14 horses killed. It was "No man standing" for a few jiffs. Of course he
               caught them at stables so was able to do a double shift &amp; get away. <span class="neutral">The desert is
                  not very interesting</span> from a physical aspect, but it is marvellous to see the wonderful
               hiding places to be found everywhere in it. Everything is sand &amp; the wind makes some
               tremendous mounds &amp; some equally tremendous hollows. I have seen hollows quite two
               hundred feet deep. </p>
            
            <p>I saw Walter Barrett but he has gone to France for sure by this. He looked well &amp;
               was
               very keen on it. You might remember me to Allie. Has W.K. arrived that way yet. Im
               so
               sorry all the boys got out of work &amp; I guess Mother had a bad time of it. Hope she
               is alright now. Tell Clare I havent had a chance to see that Aunt of hers, but will
               do
               so if I get a chance. We are about 50 miles across desert from Port Said, so you see
               I
               might see her ere long. Lizzie is in Adelaide. Her letters are very gloomy, and she
               seems very dissatisfied all round. Im very sorry, but were in this now till were let
               out, so its about time she got that view of it. She hasnt been at all short of money
               in
               any way &amp; ought to be putting on a brighter face than her letters indicate. Young
               Will is evidently a boshter. I got several letters from people in the Hill. One from
               Geo
               Robinson containing real spicy congratulation from Jim Hebbard. He reckons Im right
               on a
               royal welcome from him if he ever sees me again, so that was rather cheering.</p>
            
            
            <p>Well old man thats about all this time. Ill have such a lot to tell you when I come
               home
               that youll wish it could have been your luck to come. However your job is at home
               as Ive
               told you in most of my previous efforts. Things are looking bright for me in several
               ways. When I get back &amp; if they do well both you &amp; Ted will get the call. So in
               the meantime look well after Clare, the kiddies, &amp; yourself with ever grateful love
               to you both from </p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               Will.
               </footer>
            
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter16">
         <section>
            
            <p>James Davies, 23 June 1916, France. Regiment: 6 City of London Rifles, Regiment number:
               3343, Rank: Lance Corporal Transcript</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>France, June 23rd</h1>
               <h2>Dear Charles,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>
               <span class="positive">Just a line to let you know I am getting on fine. I have been in
                  France since Good Friday morning. Well it is not so bad, but of course not so
                  comfortable as the office work.</span>
               </p>
            
            <p>We had the Lord Mayor of London over to see us the other Sunday when we were resting,
               he made
               a little speech.</p>
            
            
            <p>How are all at the office? You might remember me to Mr Woodhams, Mr Jones and Mr Cowan
               and
               the boys also the girls. I suppose Mr Redford has retired by now.</p>
            
            
            <p>We have been in the trenches since the 13th and I expect we shall go out shortly.
               <span class="conditions">Our little dugout has just been flooded out, a very heavy
                  thunderstorm, but we have run it out.</span><span class="negative">It is rotten to see
                  how the towns have been shelled to pieces. I don't suppose they will ever be
                  rebuilt.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="negative">My brother was home on leave some time ago that is the second time so
                  he has not got off badly. He has been promoted to Sergeant now. He seems to be getting
                  on fine</span>.</p>
            
            
            <p>Have you seen Ernie Smith? How is he getting on, is he still in the A.P.C. (Army Pay
               Corps,
               non-fighting troops)? As I hear a lot have been transferred into line regiments.</p>
            
            
            <p>Well here's to the time when the war is all over and we are back in the same old place.
               <span class="battle">The trenches where we were are only 25 to 30 yards from the Huns
                  so had to keep a bit low.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>My address is 3343 Lance Corporal J. Davies, No. 1 Platoon D Company, 6th City of
               London
               Rifles, B.E.F., France. You might drop me a line to let me know how you are getting
               on and
               any news,</p>
            
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Kind regards</h2>
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter17">
         <section>
            
            <p>Frank Thayer Turner, 13 July 1916, Morn Hill Camp, Winchester, England. Born: 22 October
               1897, Joined GWR: 13 April 1912, Regiment: Company 3/18 London Irish Regiment, Returned
               to
               office: 5 November 1917. He lost his right arm in the war. Died: 28 May 1937</p>
            
            
            <header>
               <h1>July 13th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Jim (Mr Porter)</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Just a few lines to let you now things are going. <span class="positive">Am having a fairly
                  good time</span> nothing at all to grumble about. I dont think I shall be going to
               France for a few months yet. I met one of the chaps from the tickets department last
               week he
               is in the R.F.C. down here. Some of us were <span class="sense">feet under canvas for a
                  fortnight </span>but owing to the <span class="conditions">wind and rain</span> we
               were moved back to the huts. When we were under canvas, we used not get up till 8
               oclock, we
               were supposed to <span class="prep">go on parade at 6.15am</span>, but we dodged that. I
               enclose photo (not dressed for the occasion) outside our hut L20 or Hell 20 as it
               has been
               called. <span class="neutral">I am looking forward to seeing some of the office
                  chaps</span> when I am able to get leave. I hope your brother is getting on alright in
               France. Hoping you are in the pink like myself,</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours very sincerely</h2>
               F. Turner.
               </footer>
            
            <footer class="letter">p.s.Please write as soon as poss.</footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter18">
         <section>
            
            <header>
               <h1>July 16th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Jack,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Just a note as we are on the move for another camp &amp; <span class="negative">things are upside down</span>. Got a
               letter from you last mail &amp; judge that you have been having a rough time. Gee-whiz
               but you must have a few howling matches there occasionally. Hope dear old Clare is
               OK
               also Allie K. Give Clare my love. Also tell her that I wrote to Mrs Dye &amp; she has
               invited me up to Pt Said. As things are now of course I cant get away just for a while.
               We are expecting to be brawling with Johnny Turk &amp; hope to give him a load or two.
               <span class="prep">Things are greatly stirred here just now</span>. Any way, the Devil looks after his own so have
               no fear &amp; expect a line of more length shortly from your lovingly</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               Bill.
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter19">
         <section>
            
            <p>Henry Bullen, 24 July 1916, Egypt. Born: 25 April 1893, Regiment: 2/10 Middlesex regiment,
               Regiment number: 2858, Rank: Private, Died: 1942 Transcript An employee at the Audit
               office
               added the following note at the top of the letter:Private H. Bullen, late of the Passengers
               dept, went through 11 months of Dardanelles campaign' Later moved to Malta, then to
               Egypt
               and Aden. Now encamped near Mount Sinai.</p>
            
            
            <header>
               <h1>Egypt, July 24th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Percy,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>
               <span class="negative">I am sorry I have been so long replying to your letter, but I have
                  had my hands rather full just lately, so hope you will not mind. As I cannot get at
                  my
                  kit bag at present I shall only be able to write you a short letter because I have
                  nearly run out of paper envelopes, so I shall have to make up for it next time.</span>
               </p>
            
            <p>
               <span class="positive">Well my dear Percy I am glad to know yourself and all at home are in
                  the best of health and please convey to your father and mother my appreciation of
                  their
                  good wishes sent to me.</span>
               </p>
            
            <p>I received your previous budget, but it arrived after I sent you the field postcard,
               my word
               it must take you a good time to write all those sheets of foolscap, but <span class="positive">I delight in reading them, since being out here I find I cannot write an
                  interesting letter.</span>
               <span class="negative">I am afraid my letters must often bore you,</span> I have read your
               letter carefully and noted all the news about the office and some of our friends who
               are
               doing their share overseas, but the chief item you mention is poor old Rippington,
               <span class="negative">it is the first time I have heard about him, poor old chap.</span> I
               guess he was pleased to see you and I am sure it was an excellent idea of yours to
               send him
               some luxuries in the way of food with the proceeds of the money you collected for
               him at the
               office.</p>
            
            <p>
               <span class="positive">I sincerely hope our friends out in France will come out of the
                  terrible ordeal safely, I note that Bob Court and several others have gone and my
                  brother has been out there some weeks now, also I have two cousins who have been out
                  there some considerable time and been in the thick of the fighting, I hope the advance
                  will mean the rounding up of the Huns and from the latest news received here everything
                  seems to be going well at present, am looking forward to seeing the office soon.</span>
               </p>
            
            <p>
               <span class="negative">We are not having such an easy time as one would imagine,<span class="conditions">the heat is still very intense and the flies very troublesome and
                     we have anything from an elephant to a cockroach creeping over our blankets at night
                     time;</span>
                  </span>
               <span class="positive">the chameleon is our chief pet and will crawl over one's body just
                  like a tame mouse and the different colours they can change their body to suit the
                  thing
                  they settle on is wonderful.</span>
               </p>
            
            <p>Now I must close Percy as you will see the paper is nearly filled up, so hope you
               will not
               mind this time, please remember me to all at home and all inquiring friends.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>With best wishes,</h2>
               
               Private H. Bullen
               
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter20">
         <section>
            
            <p>Harry Beaumont, 18 August 1916, Rawalpindi, India. Born: 17 October 1873, Regiment:
               1/6
               East Surrey Regiment, Regiment number: 2297, Rank: Quarter Master Sergeant, Died:
               1952
               Transcript</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>Rawalpindi, India, August 18th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Bertie,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Just a few lines to let you know how we are getting on out here, I forgot when I last
               wrote
               you last and what news I told you. We marched down from the hills, 9,000 feet up in
               the
               Himalaya Mountains last October to Rawalpindi, then shortly afterwards out to camp
               returning
               just before Xmas. In February I obtained a furlough and <span class="positive"> had a fine
                  tour of places of interest, down to Delhi then right across India to Calcutta, had
                  several letters of introduction from brother Freemasons to awfully nice people there
                  and
                  had a most enjoyable time, spent a few days at Agra on the return journey, travelled
                  roughly just over 3,000 miles with several nights in the train.</span> A few days after
               returning the regiment was <span class="prep">placed under orders to march 83 miles to
                  Noushera on the frontier border</span>, where over 10,000 British and native troops
               were concentrated, a similar number at Peshawar farther down the frontier, in readiness
               for
               threatened trouble with the Afghans, whom German intriguers had been amongst. <span class="negative">Noushera was a cruel place, nothing but a dust heap at the foot of the
                  mountain.</span>
               <span class="prep">We spent several weeks there, training in mountain warfare</span>,
               <span class="negative">my word, it was chronic, <span class="conditions">the terrific
                     heat</span> and the awful climbing for miles day after day, with all transport on
                  mules and camels through the rocky mountain passes.</span> At one bivouac we
               encountered <span class="conditions">bad water</span>, and about <span class="trauma">forty of our fellows went down with enteric fever [typhoid]</span>. One died, but the
               others pulled through as they had been inoculated; <span class="positive">a wonderful thing
                  inoculation has proved to be in India.</span></p>
            
            <p><span class="positive">Well in spite of the hard time, we returned to Rawalpindi in fine
                  condition</span> after the Afghan trouble had subsided for the time being, it is always
               liable to break out at any moment and we are always in readiness to move at any time.</p>
            
            <p>Then we changed to another barracks in Rawalpindi in April, and have been stationed
               on the
               plains all the summer. <span class="negative">
                  <span class="conditions">The heat has been intense</span>; one never goes outside
                  after 10am; after tiffin at 1 o'clock the barracks and in fact everywhere is dead
                  to the
                  world until between 5 and 6pm</span>, when sports such as tennis, cricket hockey and
               swimming at the baths are possible.</p>
            
            
            <p>
               <span class="conditions">Every soldier has a punkah (fan) swinging over his bed all night
                  and during the hours off duty during the day. Many men sleep out on the barrack square
                  on their beds at night. During the past few weeks the monsoon has been on, with
                  torrential rain which I would fail to describe.</span>
               <span class="negative">Now the intense heat of the sun is draining the moisture out of the
                  earth with the result that it is like living in the moist fern house at Kew
                  Gardens,</span>
               <span class="negative">only worse</span>, <span class="trauma">and many men are being
                  bowled over with fever</span>. <span class="positive">Ever since arriving at India,
                  getting on for two years ago, I have been as fit as a fiddle and enjoyed exceptional
                  health</span>, <span class="negative">until a fortnight ago, when I was suddenly taken
                  ill with <span class="trauma">sandfly fever, a most painful, lowering form of fever,
                     </span> and was carried to hospital and also found to be suffering from <span class="trauma">pleurisy</span></span>. I was in bed several days subsisting on a
               small quantity of milk with the result that when I was allowed to get up I was too
               weak to
               stand. <span class="positive">I was discharged after ten days and am getting on quite
                  alright now, and am leaving on next furlough to a hill station in the Himalayas shortly
                  to recuperate</span>. In November we are on the move again, <span class="prep">marching about 80 miles to a big camp, for manoeuvres of several weeks,</span>
               returning again just before Christmas.<span class="negative"> But marching eighty miles in
                  five days under an Indian sun is very different to cloudy England.</span> Every
               regiment in India, both regular and territorial, is being heavily reinforced by drafts
               from
               England. We have had three drafts one consisting of nearly 300 men, then another of
               67, now
               another of 84, bringing us up to nearly 1,100 men. There are thousands of British
               troops,
               mostly Terriers (members of the Territorial army) (there are only eight regular infantry
               regiments left in India) stationed at various frontier places, and all sorts of rumours
               prevalent about a big expedition moving during the next few months, all possible
               preparations are being made for it, well, if the Indian govt. <span class="negative">make as
                  disastrous a muddle of it when the fighting does come off as they made over the
                  Mesopotamia campaign, then with foes like the ferocious Afghans there will be a terrible
                  price to pay in life, for the country and the <span class="conditions">terrific
                     heat</span> will be enough without having to fight every inch of the
                  way.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="positive">I had a very interesting letter from Mr Wood some time ago which I
                  answered recently, also had one from Mr Price a few days ago.</span> I can quite
               picture the changes which must have occurred in the staff of the Audit since I left.
               Of
               course you are over the age limit, so have not been called upon. <span class="negative">I
                  expect if, and when, I do return safely that life in England will seem very different
                  under the altered conditions. I shall be glad to get home again and only wish I could
                  see a prospect of doing so, with the conclusion of this terrible war.</span>
               <span class="positive">I have had a very enjoyable time in India</span>
               <span class="negative">(apart from soldiering which I always did enjoy, although I think I
                  have had sufficient now)</span> having made the acquaintance of awfully nice residents
               in 'Pindi, and by virtue of rank, being allowed the privilege of wearing mufti makes
               it so
               much more comfortable when going out of barracks than being in a tight uniform in
               the
               climate.</p> 
            
            
            <p><span class="positive">I hear regularly from my wife and little one every week. Am
                  glad to say they are well.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>Please convey my kind regards to all those left in the office
               that I know. Trusting you are all fit and well and that we shall meet again before
               many
               more months elapse.
               </p>
            
            
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>With best wishes Yours most sincerely </h2>
               
               Harry Beaumont
               
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter21">
         <section>
            
            
            <p>Richard Charles Stanley Frost, 23 August 1916, Devonport, England. Born: 30 January
               1888,
               Regiment: 8th Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders; Duke of Cornwall's Light Infantry,
               Regiment
               number: 1998; 300470, Rank: Private; Second Lieutenant, Died: 1962 Transcript</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>Devonport, England, August 23rd</h1>
               <h2>Dear Mr Hunt,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>I expect you have heard at the office about me being in England <span class="trauma">suffering from gas poisoning,</span> and as it is quite a long time since I last
               wrote to you, no doubt a few lines will be acceptable, to explain matters.</p>
            
            
            <p>
               <span class="prep">We left the trenches at Vimy Ridge on July 5th, and marching back about
                  14 miles we eventually reached a village named Ostreville for the purpose of having
                  a
                  divisional rest. The signallers thought an orchard would be very convenient to erect
                  bivouacs in, so when we were busy carrying out this idea an old Frenchman appeared
                  at
                  the scene, and raised objections. However he agreed at last to allow us in at one
                  end of
                  the orchard, thinking, I suppose, that we would wander about his place!</span>
               <span class="positive">We had an enjoyable time here for six days,</span> and then <span class="prep">had to return to our old billets near Mount St. Eloi until the whole of the
                  division had retired. We guessed by this move that our 'rest' was over, and the
                  following days were spent in marching, and travelling by motor lorries and train until
                  we arrived at Mericourt Station on July 21st near Albert</span>.</p>
            
            <p>
               <span class="positive">After a delightful swim in <span class="conditions">the river near
                     the billet</span></span><span class="prep">we marched off the following night,
                  to take part in the 'big push.'</span><span class="conditions">We slept in an open
                  field that night near Fricourt farm, and were rather rudely awakened by a few German
                  shells landing near us.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>For five days we were lying in reserve in this district, and occupied our time in
               watching an
               army of men at work in the valley, making roads, railways, boring for water and laying
               down
               water pipes, also practicing attacks in the old trenches. <span class="positive"> It was
                  very interesting to see the great amount of artillery, busy practically all day and
                  night,</span> and to read their messages sent by visual signalling [often using lights]
               from a ridge across the valley. </p>
            
            
            <p><span class="prep">Our period in reserve being up, we moved to Mametz Wood to lie there in
                  support for five days, before going into the trenches at High Wood.</span>
               <span class="battle"> On arrival at the edge of the wood at night, we were welcomed by a
                  big dose of gas shells and shrapnel, which was applied steadily throughout the night
                  by
                  the German artillery. </span><span class="trauma">Having to assist in putting our
                  signalling gear into a hole for safety, I was prevented from using my respirator for
                  the
                  first quarter of an hour, as we could not see on account of the darkness and dust
                  made
                  by the ammunition columns rushing along the road, and it was during this time that
                  I
                  must have breathed in enough gas to put me out of action.</span>
               <span class="prep">Afterwards of course respirators were used, when we were settled in
                  holes by the roadside for the night.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>I remained with the battalion until I was sent to the casualty clearing station on
               August 3rd
               and reached Rouen hospital the next day. I had to wait until the 9th and crossed the
               channel
               from Havre to Southampton on the New Zealand ship Marama, with about 800 other patients,
               the
               day after. <span class="positive">It was a splendid boat with every convenience for carrying
                  wounded men, and the sisters and orderlies were colonials.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>It was last Friday week when I arrived here, and must say <span class="positive">it is very
                  comfortable and quiet. I had to remain in bed until last Saturday, but of course I
                  cannot do any route marching yet! So I have to take life quietly, which is no hardship
                  I
                  can assure you after France.</span> I am on an ordinary diet, and taking medicine.</p>
            
            
            <p>I hear you have Mr Symons back again, is that so? And is he back in the same old spot?<span class="neutral"> I hope he is pretty fit, although I suppose there must be something
                  wrong with him, to be back again.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>I suppose things are as quiet as usual with you. Have you had your holidays yet? This
               is
               about your time I believe. I shall be glad of a few lines when you have time, to hear
               the
               latest about the office.I hope you are keeping fit, also Mr J.B. Taylor and Mr Woodhams
               and
               with kind regards to you all.</p>
            
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours sincerely.</h2>
               
               Frosty.
               
               </footer>
            
            <footer class="letter">p.s.P.S. It is a treat to write a letter without the censor's shadow over
               one!</footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter22">
         <section>
            
            <header>
               <h1>September 3rd</h1>
               <h2>My dear old Jack &amp; Clare</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Just a short note to let you know <span class="positive">Im still going strong</span> &amp; feeling hale &amp; hearty.
               You will have read in the papers during the past few weeks of us having been in a
               bit of
               a go &amp; making some captures, well we are still a long way away from any fixed camp
               or convenience &amp; will probably be in this state for another month. <span class="battle">The fighting
                  seems to have settled</span> right out &amp; no Turks about worth speaking of. We are camped
               out near to where we had our last fight as our horses couldnt have gone much further
               at
               the pace we had to work. My word it is the first big Light Horse work of the war and
               it
               has been most interesting throughout. I only wish we have more stunts like it. <span class="battle">Our
                  casualties were not very great</span> &amp; its surprising in open country how much lead it
               takes to pot a man. You would like to see the date oases. Just now all the dates are
               ripe &amp; there are tons &amp; tons everywhere. The country here is soft drift sand for
               miles &amp; miles &amp; then in the hollows one drops on a clump of palms (4 or 5 acres
               as a rule). Can get water almost any where at a depth of 2 ft and although brackish
               quite good &amp; drinkable so you see desert work is not so arduous as the story books
               make out. Of course there are plenty of drawbacks, but what are we here for?</p>
            
            
            <p>Certainly theres any amount of growling but you can bet your life its not too bad
               at all,
               at all. Got a cheery letter from Ede &amp; Phil the other day. They seem on a good
               wicket &amp; also mention that things are alright with you &amp; Al. I guess youre kept
               busy old man, but keep going. I hope to be a help to you when I get back, which may
               not
               be so long now Rumania is in. As for Al &amp; Ted give them my best love &amp; tell them
               I hope to be able to "do a bit" when I get back. I wrote to Mrs Dye &amp; got a very
               kind invitation to Port Said, but owing to beinginvitedon this stunt, I couldnt get
               there. I think Mrs Dye will have left for India ere this. She was due to leave about
               a
               month ago. Im sorry as I would liked to have met them. Give Clare my fondest regards
               also all the kiddies. My word they must be growing up. Hope Clare is absolutely OK.
               Also
               Alice. Got a letter from Vera Godkin. They all seem well. Lizzie is going well &amp;
               young Wills last photo showed him as a fine boy. They are in Adelaide. Well old boss,
               more later. Paper very scarce just at present. Remember me to Bob and Bess Anderson
               will
               you also my old friends. Got a real splendid message from Jim Hebbard &amp; the Central
               chaps two mails ago. Well old man you know the good things I wish you both adieu till
               we
               meet again</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Your ever lovingly</h2>
               Will.
               </footer>
            
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter23">
         <section>
            
            <header>
               <h1>October 26th</h1>
               <h2>My dear Jack &amp; Clare,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Got an undated letter from you today but should think it was posted in September.
               My word
               old horse you sound cheerful but you are not having the best of time. However I hope
               the
               furnaces are now going O.K. again &amp; things are straightening. I am sending you along
               a fiver for Xmas &amp; hope it arrives safely to give you &amp; the kids a day out in
               commemoration. Dear old Clare I hope she is doing well. I had made full arrangements
               to
               call on Mrs Dye but <span class="battle">the Turks came</span> &amp; I did not see. I think she has now gone to
               India but will find out for certain soon as we are now in a camp having arrived here
               yesterday evening. <span class="positive">Its great to be <span class="conditions">in a tent</span> again</span> &amp; tomorrow I hope to have the
               luxury of sleeping in a bed even if it is only made of feed-bags. You can guess it
               will
               go alright after not having seen one for three months. Tell Clare she neednt growl
               about
               her luck. <span class="negative">We suffer here with <span class="conditions">too little bed</span></span>. Glad the kidlets are doing so well. Yes I
               would like a snap of them very much. Sorry Barrett is wounded &amp; hope its nothing
               very serious. I had heard about Annie Gainer. Its bad luck but it looks almost like
               a
               judgment. Give my love to Ede &amp; Al &amp; the other tribes. You didnt mention Al or
               Ted. Hope they are going alright. Am sending Al along a couple of quidlets for Xmas.</p>
            
            
            <p>I am going to a Cavalry School for a course on Monday. Its quite a new thing &amp; at
               present only meant for senior officers. I feel quite favored at being sent along &amp;
               you can bet Im a trier. Will let you know how I get on. Its at Cairo. We are still
               miles
               out in the desert so of course it will be quite a good change too. The square head
               is
               getting it hot now. Next summer will see it all over. The smaller fry will peter out
               &amp; then well get the Kaisers push. Its just a case of time tells only the push hurts
               the longer it goes. Jacko has left this country pretty well but hell still be a nuisance
               for some time. Theyll all go though before this time next year. Well old boss more
               in a
               week or so. I may cable or I may post the fiver. Hope it comes in time for Xmas. Fondest
               love to you &amp; Clare &amp; the kidlets &amp; all the tribes. Will see you after the
               war alright. Tooraloo</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours ever lovingly</h2>
               Bill
               </footer>
            
            <footer class="letter">p.s.Got a letter from T.A.N.K. in France. Hes alright.</footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter24">
         <section>
            
            <p>Herb J. Wilson</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>France, November 4th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Jack</h2>
            </header>
            
            
            <p>Your very welcome letter to hand a couple of days ago.</p>
            
            <p><span class="positive">I am pleased to hear that the strike is settled</span> and that you lost no time. Well Jack you say
               that there seems to be a bit of a mystery about us chaps well since the <span class="prep">evacuation</span>, last
               December we have been tossed about a bit &amp; have had <span class="prep">three trips across the Meditterean</span>
               so I reckon that I have been pretty lucky in not meeting any German submarines.</p>
            
            <p>My last trip was from Alexandria to Marceilles, which took six days and then straight
               out of
               the boat into the train for another 68 hours ride across France. <span class="positive">My word Jack it was a
                  lovely <span class="conditions">train journey</span></span> we passed through some beautiful country but I will tell you all about
               it when I get home again but its hard to say when that will be. Well Jack this is
               Easter
               Monday we are moving into the <span class="battle">trenches</span> tonight so we will be able to find out for our-selves
               what sort of fighters the Germans are perhaps I will be able to tell you a bit about
               them in
               my next letter.</p>
            
            <p>Well Jack you dont mention what batt your Brother is attached to so next time you
               write dont
               forget to let me know as I would only be to pleased to meet him. I say Jack you will
               have to
               excuse scribbling as I haven't much time so I will have to close with best wishes
               to
               yourself and wife and all the engine room staff.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>I remain</h2>
               Herb
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter25">
         <section>
            
            <p>Arthur Smith, 19 November 1916, Addington Park War Hospital, England. Born: 8 March
               1895,
               Regiment: Railway Troop, Royal Engineers, Regiment number: 87760, Rank: Lance Corporal,
               Returned to office: 16 June 1919, Retired: 30 September 1955</p>
            
            
            <header>
               <h1>France, November 19th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Sir,</h2>
            </header>
            
            
            <p>I expect you wonder what has become of me as you have not heard from me for such a
               long time.
               The reason is that since the 20th September I have been <span class="trauma">suffering with enteric (typhoid)</span>.
               The exact diagnosis of my case being <span class="trauma">para typhoid B</span>. I have not been up three weeks until
               next Friday, but <span class="positive">since I first got out of bed I have made splendid progress.</span> I was in an
               <span class="conditions">isolation hospital in France</span> for six weeks and previous to that <span class="conditions">in a General Hospital</span> for
               eight days. <span class="positive">I arrived here late last Wednesday night after a very decent journey.</span> This is a
               <span class="sense">beautiful palace surrounded by a park</span> in which we can walk about and we are allowed to go to
               the post office which is quite near. <span class="positive">I am quite happy and comfortable here, it is a <span class="conditions">splendid
                     hospital</span>.</span> We have a <span class="sense">concert or cinema nearly every night</span> in the big hall. <span class="conditions">Food is good</span> and
               plentiful. <span class="neutral">How long it will be before I am considered fit again I have no notion</span>, as a rule
               it takes months for a person to get right again.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="negative">It is a very funny and beastly complaint.</span>  <span class="positive">During to the whole time I have <span class="conditions">been in hospital</span> I
                  have received every attention and kindness.</span> During the months of July and August <span class="negative">when I was
                  in the Somme district I had a very rough time</span>, was <span class="negative">nearly worked to death</span> and had <span class="conditions">little
                  sleep</span>. At one period we had to commence work at 2am but we were supposed to rest in the
               day
               but we could not get any. <span class="positive">However, it was all in a good cause and we got through it.</span>
               Ambulance trains were loaded up at the station where I was and <span class="sense">we saw some awful sights</span>.
               <span class="trauma">English and German wounded</span>. Perhaps I <span class="trauma">picked my fever up</span> at this place, but one never knows.
               While I was in the <span class="conditions">isolation hospital</span> in France I was kept for three weeks and two days on
               liquids but <span class="positive">I am pleased to say that the doctor has now put me on ordinary diet.</span> With the
               kindest regards and best wishes to all,</p>
            
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>I remain yours obediently.</h2>
               
               A. Smith
               
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter26">
         <section>
            
            <p>R.C.S. Frost,23 November 1916, Dartmouth, England. Born: 30 January 1888, Regiment:
               8th
               Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders; Duke of Cornwall's Light Infantry, Regiment number:
               1998;
               300470, Rank: Private; Second Lieutenant, Died: 1962 Transcript</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>Dartmouth, England, November 23rd</h1>
               <h2>Dear</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>
               <span class="positive">Many thanks for your most welcome and interesting letter safely
                  received, and I am pleased to hear of the latest news about friends at the office
                  and
                  others in different parts of the world.</span>
               </p>
            
            <p>
               <span class="negative">I have not had a line from H. Martin for many months</span>, <span class="positive">but I hear he has had leave recently, and no doubt he gave you a call. I
                  hoped to have had that pleasure before this time, but I expect to be seeing you one
                  of
                  these fine days.</span></p>
            
            <p><span class="neutral">I am still a patient in hospital, and although at times the life is
                  monotonous in this quiet place, it is preferable to France so I won't grumble.</span>
               <span class="conditions">The weather has been so rough and wild of late, that a lot our
                  time is spent by the fireside,</span> and <span class="positive">many pleasant hours
                  are passed in comparing notes with men who are patients from minesweepers.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>We have had different men from this branch of the Navy for several weeks, and at present
               five
               are in my ward. <span class="trauma">Two of these are survivors from a minesweeper that was
                  blown up by a German mine nearly a fortnight ago, just outside Dartmouth Castle. </span>
               <span class="prep">They are still clearing the sea outside here and the boats return to
                  anchor in the river at night,</span> and the pals of these men visit them this
               evening. <span class="positive">The officers are also very good in calling and leaving gifts
                  and the wounded Tommies share in the fruits thereof!</span></p>
            
            <p>
               <span class="negative">I have heard from Scotland that <span class="battle">the 8th Argylls
                     suffered heavily a short time ago in France</span>, and in the newspapers today I
                  notice the names of nine officers who I knew in France, including the Captain of my
                  company who is killed. I don't know if the 6th Seaforths, who are in the same brigade,
                  were in action at the same time, but I shouldn't be surprised, anyhow I hope [Gilbert]
                  Williams came through safely if he was there.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>I am enclosing two privilege forms, and will be glad if you will get them signed and
               returned. <span class="positive ">I have had some nice afternoons at Torquay and Paignton
                  and was <span class="conditions">there during the rough weather a short time ago, when
                     the Brixham trawler was wrecked and sea was so rough.</span></span> I hope this
               letter will find you very well and undisturbed at the old job. With kind regards to
               Messrs
               Taylor, Symons, and Woodhams and accept the same yourself.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Sincerely yours,</h2>
               
               'Frosty'.
               
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter27">
         <section>
            
            <header>
               <h1>November 29th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Jack &amp; Clare,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>I hope you wont mind me the way I send you such spasmodic letters &amp; all that. You
               cant imagine how things get mixed here &amp; what arrangements we have &amp; their
               limitations. Still just a line to let you know <span class="positive">Im living and pretty healthy </span>generally on
               it. I hope I can say the same in a week or so as we are expecting some scrap in a
               few
               days &amp; I think its going to be heavy at that. However well wait for it before we say
               any more. Im afraid Im very poor at sending you any description of these things but
               Ill
               tell you all about it when I come back. Hope everybody is quite well. Your last letter
               seemed to show you in a bit of a mix up. I was intending to send you a few quidlets
               as a
               Xmas cheerer but was unable to do so. Should you want a few quid let Lizzie know.
               Her
               last address was B.H. Shell always do anything possible for you too &amp; you know its
               your just dues. I think she can manage it alright for you &amp; I am writing her on the
               subject in case you find it necessary. Sorry old chapsies to hear of all the bad luck,
               but dont get downhearted. This will all end soon &amp; things will be alright. Wait till
               I come home. Youll be quite surprised the way things are going to go. So cheers. Hope
               dear old Clare is up to form again. And also all the kids &amp; Al &amp; Ted &amp; all
               the others. Tell them some day to expect a letter each, but I dont know when. <span class="negative">We are
                  <span class="prep">continuously moving</span> &amp; life is fairly strenuous</span>. Our horses are getting What Ho but
               they are good stuff &amp; stand well. Now excuse this note &amp; dont think Im shelving
               any questions from your last letter. Fact is Ive come out here in such a hurry that
               I
               havent got any of the old letters here. Now heaps &amp; heaps of love to you all. Youll
               probably get this long after Xmas but lots of fun &amp; a happy New Year. </p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours gratefully</h2>
               Bill
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter28">
         <section>
            
            <p>Hugh Andrew Skilling, 5 January 1917, France. Born: 17 April 1891, Regiment: 3 Battalion
               Bedfordshire Regiment; 7 London Brigade Field Artillery, Regiment number: 43228, Rank:
               Lance
               Corporal, Died: 1970</p>
            
            
            <header>
               <h1>Somme, France, January 5th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Mr W.H. Davies,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Just a line to let you know I have not forgotten you. I received a <span class="sense">letter</span> on Tuesday 3rd of
               January 1917 which you sent to me on August 24th 1916. By the marking on the envelope
               it has
               been round to various regiments and officers, but it has arrived quite safe at last.
               I
               received the <span class="sense">letter</span> you wrote in October quite safe. <span class="neutral">I am sorry I have not written before
                  but we were rather busy when I received your last letter and we could not send more
                  than a
                  <span class="sense">field card</span> for about a month.</span> <span class="positive">Well I am pleased to tell you that I am still going on first
                  rate.</span> I expect you will be surprised to hear that I have left the Northamptonshire Regiment
               and am now attached to the Army Printing and Stationary Services. We are opening a
               new
               branch in the photography line and I am here as a <span class="prep">photographer</span>.</p> 
            
            
            <p>I am unable to tell you more than this up to the present. I expect Harry will be pleased
               to hear this as he used to give
               me quite a lot of tuition in this respect.</p>
            
            
            <p>There are only two of us here up to the present and <span class="positive">as the <span class="conditions">dark rooms</span> are not finished yet we
                  are having an easy time.</span> The Officer is away in England just now getting some more
               photographic apparatus so we are on our own and I am in charge.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="positive">We are <span class="conditions">billeted</span> with a company of Australian electricians, mechanics, mining and boring
                  engineers and are having a fine time.</span> There are a good lot of fellows and make us very
               welcome. <span class="positive">We had a grand Xmas with them and they know how to enjoy themselves.</span> You can
               understand what a change this is after being <span class="battle">in the line</span>. Just before I came on this job we
               had over a month <span class="battle">in and out of the line</span> waiting to <span class="battle">go over the top</span> when the <span class="conditions">weather</span> was
               favourable.</p>
            
            
            <p>We went in for four days then out for a rest for about three days then back again.
               The <span class="conditions">water
                  was over our knees</span> in the <span class="battle">trenches</span> and it was <span class="negative">impossible to use the <span class="battle">communication trenches</span>
                  at all.</span> We were holding the <span class="battle">front line</span> with <span class="battle">two platoons</span> (I should say our boys section of
               the line). <span class="sense">Our platoon was twenty two strong</span> including the Officer, and during the
               <span class="battle">bombardment</span> we had <span class="trauma">eight put out in ten minutes</span>. There were <span class="conditions">no dugouts of any description</span>
               there, so you can imagine what it was like to <span class="conditions">stand there for four nights</span>. <span class="negative">We hoped the
                  <span class="conditions">weather</span> would be alright so that we could <span class="battle">go over and get it done with</span> but it was not to be.</span>
               We were out <span class="prep">digging</span> one night when they let us have it for five hours with <span class="battle">gas shells</span>, we
               had <span class="trauma">two chaps hit with them and put right out.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="negative">The <span class="sense">sights and smells</span> were awful, as a good many of the <span class="sense">chaps lay just as they fell</span> during
                  the advance.</span><span class="negative"> It was impossible to <span class="battle">bury</span> them.</span> Also there were about a <span class="sense">dozen dead horses round</span>
               about in the mud that were killed by <span class="battle">shell fire</span> while bringing up <span class="battle">ammunition for the guns</span>.
               Our <span class="battle">guns</span> never cease down there, as soon as one section stop, another lot open out so you
               can tell there is Somme noise.</p>
            
            
            <p>The last time we came out, was for <span class="conditions">forty eight hours rest</span> then <span class="battle">in again and over</span>, but the
               <span class="negative">troops were in such a <span class="trauma">bad condition</span> that the doctor sent in a report saying we were not fit
                  for the line</span> so two other regiments in our division went over in our place.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="positive">We were held in reserve and I am glad to say not required after all.</span> Well I think this is
               about all, for now, I have been with the A.P. &amp; S.S. since December 1st and I can
               tell
               you, I hope I shall stop here.<span class="neutral"> I have no desire to go back to the line.</span> Kindly remember me
               to all old friends. With kind regards to yourself and all on Section 4.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours sincerely,</h2>
               
                H.A. Skilling
               
               </footer>
            
            <footer class="letter">p.s.No. 2 Section Advanced Section Army Printing &amp; Stationary Service</footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter29">
         <section>
            
            
            <p>Henry James Marsh</p>
            
            
            <header>
               <h1>Indian Oceane, January 14th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Bob,</h2>
            </header>
            
            
            <p>Now for another budget concerning this trip so far. Well, I left Brisbane on the 21st
               Dec. at
               6.30 A.M. by train for Sydney, arrived at Roma Street at 7 A.M. changed engines for
               a B.17
               and then started on our long journey. The farewell at that Station is something that
               shall
               never be forgotten by most men on that train. My people couldn't get into Brisbane
               to see me
               as the train I was on left too early before the train from Wynnum arrived in Brisbane,
               so I
               said a final good-bye the night before. I shall never forget that particular night.
               I always
               though it took <span class="negative">something very awful</span> to break me up, <span class="trauma">but that night broke me up completely</span>. I would give anything now
               to have just a look at my dear home and parents, but <span class="conditions">the ship is
                  taking me further away</span> each kick with the propeller. Anyhow I am looking
               forward in the future to seeing Wynnum and my parents after I have done my duty at
               the
               front. In camp at Enoggera is a splendid life to be at: he can go where he likes,
               but when
               once you leave for the front you are tied down to orders, now one has to be a dinkum
               soldier, <span class="negative">I can see how it is one doesn't want to enlist</span>, but
               I do not dislike the game, I am only giving you the idea of the whole concern so far
               as I
               have seen of it.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter"></footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter30">
         <section>
            
            <header>
               <h1>January 20th</h1>
               <h2>My dear Jack &amp; Clare</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>It is quite a long time since I wrote you or received any from you. I think I wrote
               Clare
               after receiving her boshter cake &amp; I hope you got that alright. I never got Edes
               pudding &amp; whether it fell through the mail-bag or not is a matter of conjecture.
               Perhaps they thought by the weight it was a bomb or shell &amp; heaved it out of the
               mail. I believe the maximum weight allowed though is 11 lbs. Still hard luck. It may
               turn up yet &amp; I am living in hopes. Glad to see things are brightening again old
               cock. You are certainly having a very rough time of it. Everybody is but I think you
               are
               getting more than your share. However I am very pleased to see you are both as game
               as
               ever. Old pals I hope to be a bit of use when I got back &amp; whatever comes my way be
               sure you are the first for a "cut". Poor old Al &amp; Ted have been up against it a lot.
               I must write them today. Both Ede &amp; Nell seem very happy. I often get letters from
               Morgan now. Vera &amp; Win &amp; Nell all take a turn. Suppose all the kids are quite
               grown up now &amp; swanky. Would like to see them. Youve certainly got a crowd round
               you. How would a farm go? Youd have enough labor to work it. I often get letters from
               the firm &amp; think if you care about it I could work the oracle for you when I get
               back to get fixed up in something good. So keep battling &amp; save those quarter shares
               of [Tatts?]. Hope youve hooked some more ere this. </p>
            
            <p>We had our last battle in Palestine.<span class="positive"> Its a wonderful country</span>, what we saw of it. And I
               would like a chance at getting land there. The horses had a good go in on wheat crops.
               We lost 4 officers. It makes one think a bit. However Ive got a good way of standing
               side on. My name went in for a decoration but dont know if it will come out. Some
               do
               &amp; some dont. I tried to transfer to the flying Corps but my Colonel wouldnt stand
               me. And he wont give me a rise so there you are. Still all good things come to those
               who
               wait. Got a letter from Aunt Molly w.a. &amp; Tommy in France some weeks ago. They both
               mentioned receiving letters from you. I have written them. Lizzie must be very
               downhearted. I get very few letters from her lately. 2 in seven weeks. I guess shes
               pretty miserable. Think this will end this year. We are doing much more than the papers
               say in the way of preparation. The Hit of the war will be about May &amp; it will finish
               one way or other then. Love to you both &amp; the kidlets. Keep up bravely as you have
               done, the road is sure to get easier directly</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours ever lovingly</h2>
               Will
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter31">
         <section>
            
            <p>Harry Beaumont, 2 March 1917, Aratia, Yemen, Born: 17 October 1873, Regiment: 1/6
               East
               Surrey Regiment, Regiment number: 2297, Rank: Quarter Master Sergeant, Died: 1952
               Transcript</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>Aratia, Yemen, March 2nd</h1>
               <h2>Dear Bertie,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p><span class="positive">Many thanks for your long and interesting letter, which has now
                  reached me, I will to it at length at a more opportune moment.</span></p>
            
            <p> As you will see by above address I have left India. The regiment left the N.W. Indian
               frontier in January where <span class="conditions">the winter had been bitterly
                  cold</span> and embarked at Karachi after a three day's train journey, <span class="positive">then six day's most pleasant voyage to Aden where we landed and now join
                  part of the Aden Field Force.</span> I have been stationed with a strong detachment on
               the desert in close proximity to a Turkish force <span class="battle">who frequently
                  shelled us</span>, but without any material damage. <span class="neutral">The heat
                  after the cold winter in India is very trying, <span class="conditions">scorching hot
                     sun, endless sand and myriads of torturing flies.</span></span> Life is very
               different here as compared to India. I never pictured myself riding across the Arabian
               dessert on a camel. <span class="positive">Am pleased to say I am splendidly fit and well,
                  but should be glad when the struggle is over and hope I shall be amongst those who
                  return home safely.</span></p>
            
            <p>Trusting you are well. Best of wishes, kind regards to the remnants of the Audit staff.
               </p>
            
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours most sincerely</h2>
               
               Harry Beaumont
               
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter32">
         <section>
            
            <p>Born: 1 April 1893, Regiment: Royal Flying Corps, Regiment number: 16922, Rank: 1st
               class
               Air Mechanic, Returned to office: 10 March 1919, Retired: Resigned on 25 March 1925.
               </p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>France, April 26th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Mr Taylor,</h2>
            </header>
            
            
            <p>No doubt you think that I have forgotten all about you and my friends of the Audit,
               but never
               let it be said (this is an army term, if you please.) Truth to tell I have been going
               to
               write time after time, but have had to put it off for various reasons. I am taking
               this
               opportunity of writing to you, while I am in charge of tonights guard. I get this
               job about
               once a week now, its not so bad, I have three men and a man in waiting; we mount at
               5pm and
               dismiss at 7am. We make ourselves <span class="neutral">as comfortable as we can</span>, in
               the guard tent, which just covers over the top of the sand bags, and these have got
               grass
               growing out of them now. The sand bags are about 4ft high and make a good protection.
               April
               1st I got my two stripes up, after being a 1st Air Mechanic for 12 months, the Non-
               Commissioned Officers have a very decent mess here, and everything is ok. I am corporal
               in
               charge of wireless, photographic, electrical and all instruments used on aeroplanes,
               I have
               had a very good education on all those subjects, but the one I like best is the wireless,
               its far more interesting than photography, which is a very big thing indeed out here,
               and a
               lot depends upon a good photograph of the Hun lines</p>
            
            
            <p>Yesterday I saw a nice little game between one of ours and one of theirs, after our
               <span class="battle">anti-aircraft fire</span> had taken it up a bit higher, our machine went
               for it and got well over the top of it, then two more of ours came along and forced
               it down,
               she tried all manner of tricks, but down she came alright, and landed a clean machine,
               not
               broken in any part, and the two Huns inside it quite well. </p>
            
            
            <p>We gave a revue (theatrical show) to our chaps here on the 13th, it went off alright,
               we
               started at 9pm and gave a two hours show, am enclosing programme, and will forward
               a photo
               of myself as the oldest inhabitant as soon as I receive them from the Frenchman who
               took
               themKind regards to all of the section and the remainder of the agreements, and hoping
               you
               are fit and well. Good bye.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours sincerely,</h2>
               F.R. Morris
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter33">
         <section>
            
            <p> Blackpool training depot, England. Regiment: Royal Army Medical Corps, 97469, Rank:
               Private,
               Enlisted: 6 June 1916, Discharged: 21 July 1919</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>April 29th</h1>
            </header>
            
            <p>Am enclosing a photo of myself, it is, I have been told, not a good likeness, but
               there it is.
               We have any amount of lectures on the body etc., and presently have to pass an examination,
               if
               successful the red crosses are issued and also 4d (pennies) per day extra pay. </p>
            
            
            <p> Leave is only granted once in nine months and then only six days at the most, in
               some cases
               only four is given, so I shall not be up yet, but will make a point of course of coming
               up to
               Paddington when I do get a chance.</p>
            
            <p><span class="conditions">Blackpool is a lovely place</span> and the weather now is <span class="positive">grand</span>, although the first fortnight was bitterly cold.</p>
            
            
            <p>Well I must now close, with a hope to hear from you shortly, please give my kind regards
               to all
               acquaintances.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               F. Secrett
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter34">
         <section>
            
            <p>Kenneth William Sharland, 26 July 1917, Pashan Camp, Kirkee, India. Born: 25 September
               1888, Regiment: 1/6 East Surrey Regiment; Bedfordshire Regiment; Bedfordshire and
               Hertfordshire Regiment, Regiment number: 34173; 32376, Rank: Private, Died: Jan-</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>India, July 26th</h1>
               <h2>My dear Mr Biggs</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p><span class="neutral">The writing mood is on me</span> so I take the opportunity to send
               you a few lines to let you know how I am getting on, at the same time hoping that
               at some
               future date I may have the pleasure of hearing from you. Your letter is bound to be
               very
               interesting to me as I have not seen or heard from anybody at Paddington for over
               six
               months.</p>
            
            
            <p>I left Aldershot on March 16th and travelled as far as Durban via Sierra Leone and
               Cape Town
               on the White Star Liner Suevic. <span class="positive">This part of the journey was delightful</span>, the <span class="positive"><span class="conditions">food</span> and
                  <span class="conditions">accommodation</span> was very good</span> for a troopship. Of course this is accounted for by the fact
               that it is an Australian troopship. Everything was done that could be to make the
               journey
               enjoyable for the <span class="sense">one thousand seven hundred men on board</span>. We stayed just outside Sierre
               Leone for three days but were not allowed to leave. We arrived at Cape Town on Saturday
               afternoon four weeks after leaving Keyham and had a <span class="prep">route march</span> round the town the same
               evening. The next day we were allowed to roam about at will all day and <span class="positive">a right jolly time
                  we had</span> although it was <span class="conditions">very hot indeed</span> for winter. <span class="sense">Cape Town is a beautiful place</span> and <span class="positive">the
                  inhabitants made our visit very enjoyable</span>.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="positive">The patriotism of the South African is wonderful</span> to us after the coolness of the English
               (especially Aldershot). On the Monday we sailed for Durban arriving there on the Thursday
               evening after a <span class="conditions">rather rough journey</span> round the Cape. We did not land till the Saturday
               afternoon and then bid goodbye to the Suevic. She went on to Australia. We had two
               weeks at
               Durban and <span class="positive">had a glorious time in a rest camp</span> on Ocean Beach. Every day we went <span class="conditions">bathing</span> and
               only had <span class="prep">parades</span> up to 12 noon each day. The trams were free to us all over the city and
               invitations were showered upon us by the English residents. You can rest assured that
               we
               were very sorry to leave such a delightful spot, still all good things come to end
               and we
               finally had to go on board the Laconia belonging to the Cunard company for <span class="negative">four weeks
                  misery</span>, we lay in the harbour for one week <span class="negative">longing to go ashore</span> before we started on the
               last stage of our journey to India. This ship was actually <span class="conditions">lousy (infested with lice)</span> and we
               had to put up with a shirt inspection every day. <span class="negative">The <span class="conditions">food</span> was bad and very little of it</span> and
               to back it all up <span class="negative">the canteen was rotten as well</span>. <span class="negative">I was glad to get to Bombay and get off
                  such a <span class="conditions">rotten ship</span></span>. <span class="neutral">I lost a stone in <span class="trauma">weight</span> during that four weeks.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>We arrived in India during the <span class="conditions">monsoon period</span> and have <span class="negative">had plenty of rain more than we like</span> I
               can assure you.</p>
            
            
            <p>Kirkee is only about hundred miles from Bombay and is about six thousand feet above
               the sea.
               We will while here never have the extremes of weather as the <span class="conditions">climatic conditions</span> are
               considered to be ideal here.</p> 
            
            
            <p>Strange as it may seem to English people native women do most
               of the work here, and actually act as bricklayers labourers carrying pans of mortar
               on their
               heads, the men do very little indeed. <span class="sense">Sunday is the same as any other day to them</span>. As they
               have their own religious days when they have what they call Ram Jamees. All cartage
               is done
               by oxen and is rather slow and cumbersome. Kirkee Bazar is about three quarters of
               an hours
               walk from Pashan Camp and is rather interesting but is very dirty, <span class="sense">children run about naked</span>
               and the <span class="conditions">drainage and dwellings</span> are very bad indeed. <span class="sense">Cigarettes</span> made by the Turkish tobacco
               company Bandra can obtained for eleven annas (former unit of Indian currency) per
               100
               (eleven pence) and are very good indeed, being better than the Nebka. Poona is the
               nearest
               city and is about five miles away. I walked there last Thursday to have a look round,
               this
               place boasts of one or two hotels and an Italian restaurant but is otherwise an exact
               counterpart of Kirkee and <span class="sense">quite as dirty</span>. The Italian restaurant is very good and is quite
               the equal of most London restaurants.</p>
            
            
            <p>We do not receive a very many <span class="sense">letters</span> out here, as the mail is so uncertain, <span class="neutral">we never know
                  when the next one will arrive.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>When you are writing you must let me know all the news, I
               wonder whether your section will ever be established again as it was before.</p> 
            
            
            <p>Since I came out here I have taken up <span class="prep">signalling</span> and find it very useful, there is just a possibility I
               might be able to learn wireless, if so I dont doubt that it might be useful to me,
               when we
               get back to Blighty if there is half a chance to do so I will cease it.</p>
            
            
            <p>Our Battalion is at Aden and unless the signalling alters my destination I will eventually
               find myself there. <span class="neutral">It is not exactly the place I should choose if I had my own way but of
                  course there is no choice about it.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>Well I think I have given you all the news now and am
               sure you are tired of reading this letter by now, so will close with best wishes to
               you all
               from,</p>
            
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>yours sincerely,</h2>
               
               Kenneth W. Sharland
               
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter35">
         <section>
            
            <header>
               <h1>'Army City' Garnett, Kansas, August 6th</h1>
               <h2>My Dearest Mary,</h2>
            </header>
            
            
            <p>We are in the Army now. I am sitting inside our little old tent listening to the gentle
               patter of the <span class="conditions">raindrops</span> on the canvas. It began
               raining here this morning and it is still at it. No <span class="prep">drill</span>
               today, so I will have time to write a letter or two. <span class="positive">We got into
                  the city all O.K.</span>, marched up to the armory and had dinner. They have mess
               in the armory. <span class="neutral">We have to march back and forth to eat.</span>
               <span class="sense">Eats are pretty good so far</span> as they have some <span class="sense">women helping with the cooking.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>Set up camp in the afternoon. Shoemaker has been Acting Corporal in our squad. We
               got the
               tent up all right under the direction of one of the old heads who has seen service
               on
               the border. Some <span class="prep">equipment</span> was issued in the afternoon. As
               my name is down well in the list, I have not received anything yet in my own name.</p>
            
            
            <p>Corporal Hilton is staying in town so he let me have his stuff. Got pack, gun, poncho,
               and numerous <span class="sense">other things I don't know what are used for</span>.
               <span class="conditions">Slept on the ground</span> last night in a tent with
               just an <span class="conditions">even dozen in it</span>. Some of the fellows are
               staying in town at hotels, rooming houses, and private houses. Taken altogether, <span class="negative">things are in rather poor shape as yet</span>, but I suppose it
               takes a little time to get around. A few of the bunch act like a bunch of bums instead
               of soldiers, but they will get that taken out of them when they get to a real camp.</p>
            
            
            <p>They got Parker Melliush for kitchen duty the first thing. Walter Anthony was stuck
               for
               guard duty last night. It must be fine walking up and down in front of a row of tents
               watching the other fellows sleep. One thing they did do, everybody had to quiet down
               at
               ten-thirty last night. <span class="positive">We had a good entertainment</span> before
               lights out. (We had a light, too, as some of the bunch got hold of a <span class="conditions">lantern</span>.) A fellow in our squad by the name of Donald
               <span class="sense">gets off some pretty good comedy</span> -- original stuff,
               too. He is a rather rough nut, but not as bad as some of this crowd.</p>
            
            <p>There was some crowd at the station yesterday, wasn't there? I think I shook hands
               with
               everybody in town three or four times. <span class="negative">Not a very pleasant task
                  under the circumstances, either.</span> Well, I got <span class="negative">so much
                  company in here that I can't think straight.</span> This is rather a poor excuse of
               a letter, but I will write again soon.</p>
            
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>With best of love to my own little girl,</h2>
               Lloyd S.
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter36">
         <section>
            
            <p>James Claude Kibblewhite, 1 September 1917, Malta. Born: 14 June 1895, Regiment: 2/13
               Battalion London Regiment, Regiment number: 490602, Rank: Sergeant, Died: 20 December
               1951
               Transcript</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>Malta, September 1st</h1>
               <h2>Dear</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p> I trust you will excuse the liberty I have taken in writing you, after such a long
               absence
               from England, but the difficulties of active service is my excuse, although I am sorry
               to
               say laziness has a lot to do with it.</p>
            
            
            <p> No doubt you will wonder what I am doing wasting my time in Malta; well, I came here
               last
               January through <span class="trauma">an attack of dysentery followed by
                  constipation</span>, there I remained, and am likely to do so, unless something very
               unexpected happens.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="positive">I have been taken on the temporary staff, and am acting as parade
                  staff sergeant, quite a nice easy position, except when we are receiving or sending
                  troops away.</span>
               </p>
            
            
            <p> How are things in general, looking at Paddington, I suppose the office is full of
               ladies and
               men who are over the age limit.</p>
            
            
            <p> I saw a Great Western Magazine a few days ago, and I noticed that a large number
               of the
               'chiefs' have retired, also that Artlett has not given up trying to bring sports honours
               to
               the Audit with the Bowls team.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="positive">The weather here is absolutely glorious, and our camp is right against
                  the sea, we get some lovely bathing and boating, in fact it is almost as good as any
                  resort in England.</span>
               </p>
            
            
            <p>We are about ten miles from Valletta, but we can always get a ride in a motor lorry
               or a
               gharry (horse-drawn cab) I have only met one G.W. man since I have been here and that
               is
               Cowles of the Agreements. He has been here since the Dardanelles; and he is acting
               chief
               clerk to the commanding officer of the Company Camp...</p>
            
            
            <p>I have not given up hope of getting to England yet, as since I have been here <span class="trauma">I have contracted malaria, also my heart is not good enough to allow me to
                  carry a pack for a while</span>, so I have been marked unfit for over three months,
               and I may give you all a surprise by walking into the office one of these fine days.</p>
            
            
            <p> Well, sir, when is the war going to end, I think it would have been all over now,
               bar the
               shouting, if it had not been for Russia.</p>
            
            
            <p>I think the Great Western Railway according to the magazine have reaped a fair share
               of the
               awards for bravery etc, on the field.</p>
            
            
            <p>Well, sir, I trust it will not be long before I have the pleasure of receiving a reply
               to my
               letter, and kindly remember me to all that are left of the old room 19</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>&gt;I am, Sir, Yours respectfully,</h2>
               
               J.C. Kibblewhite Sgt.
               
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter37">
         <section>
            
            <p> Mitchell Library, State Library of New South Wales Letter from Frederick Johnson
               Board, 7
               September 1917 MLMSS 9269 / Folder 6 [Page 1] 3rd London General Hospital Wandsworth
               7-9-17</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>3rd London General Hospital, September 7th</h1>
               <h2>My dear Miss Jamieson</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Doubtless you have heard that I <span class="battle">got plugged</span> some time ago and
               as a consequence have <span class="trauma">been in Hosp for the last 9 weeks or
                  more</span>, and am now being invalided back to Australia for 6 months, so <span class="positive">I may have a chance of seeing you</span>, if I have to go to Brisbane
               on arrival. <span class="battle"> The whole trouble rose through getting in the road of a
                  Bosch high-explosive shell, which practically burst amongst 6 of us, killing one Officer
                  (an Artillery chap) and wounding the other 5 of us.</span>
               <span class="trauma">I unfortunately stopped 4 pieces of the ironmongery (2 in the knee,
                  and 2 lower down) made rather a mess of the knee for a while, but it is getting on
                  pretty well now &amp; although I cant put much weight on it, I can get about fairly well
                  on the patent crutches they gave me here.</span> One Dr reckoned it would take 6
               months to get right &amp; the other doesnt think it ever be much good, but I think he's
               wrong, anyhow instead of hanging about here for 6 months, they are sending me to Sunny
               Australia for the same period &amp; to see if the leg will get better. <span class="negative">I had no idea it was going to take so long and was very disappointed at
                  having to give up my old Battalion which was doing so well after having practically
                  selected its personnel &amp; officers and been with it for 18 months. I tell you it
                  hurts to give up the old Unit, and had it over to someone else</span> probably for
               good.</p>
            
            <p><span class="positive">Do you remember Major Heron of the 42nd (used to be Capt Heron when
                  they left Queensland) well he took over the 41st when I left it, and as far as I know
                  still has command, with Major Sheridan as second in command. Your favourite (Capt
                  French) was still going strong when I left and was in command of C Coy. He is still
                  a
                  great ladykiller(?) in fact he had the chance of 10 days leave to Paris just before
                  I
                  went there, but wouldnt take it, but he was keen on getting leave to England.. Hastings
                  I guess, eh? By jove Paris was great, it is some" place, I can tell you, and dont
                  the
                  women dress, it isnt so much what they put on, but the way they wear it. It is by
                  a long
                  way the prettiest City I've seen &amp; I dont think London can hold a candle to it.
                  London may be larger but I dont think it is nearly so pretty.</span></p>
            
            <p>Well how is your Patriotic work getting on these days? I suppose you are as busy as
               ever, and
               as hard worked as ever in the interests of The Boys. Really you girls deserve the
               D.S.O. for
               all your splendid services. <span class="positive">Do you know that the first suit of
                  pyjamas I put on when I got into this Hosp was labelled from the Brisbane Courier
                  Fund
                  funny isnt it? It shows how far reaching are the results of various Colonial
                  efforts.</span> Well Im off to bed now, will probably be leaving for Australia in a day
               or two.Kindest regards to Mollie &amp; yourself. Hoping to see you later on U boats
               permitting.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours very sincerely</h2>
               
                F.J. Board 
               
               </footer>
            
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter38">
         <section>
            
            <p> Frederick Ernest Andrews, 16 October 1917, France Born: 15 November 1879, Regiment:
               Railway Operation Division, Royal Engineers, Regiment number: 218857, Rank: Sapper,
               Returned
               to office: 26 May 1919, Retired: 15 November 1939 Transcript </p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>France, October 16th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Mr Slater</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Just a few lines to let you know how things are going with me, I have been going to
               write to
               before this, but on each occasion I have had to postpone it for some reason or other.
               I have
               been at this place since April. It is a fairly large city and has at one time been
               <span class="positive">a very nice place</span>, but it is now a heap of ruins, not a
               habitable house anywhere and no civilians, it is the nearest railhead to this part
               of the
               line and when we first came here things were pretty lively, but Fritz is gradually
               being
               pushed back here and has not troubled us for some time now I don't mind if he has
               forgotten
               we're here. Naldrett, Dawson and Anglesey and several other Audit chaps were up here
               a short
               time ago, but their detachment has now been moved to another part of the line, they
               are on
               the Light Railway and shift about more.</p>
            
            <p>
               <span class="positive">It was nice to meet some of the old office pals again and I spent
                  several pleasant hours with them while they were here</span>, for I am the only G.W.
               man in this detachment. McMeeken is in the Railway Transport Officer's office about
               three
               miles from here and I see him occasionally. <span class="negative">I was very sorry to hear
                  of the deaths of Pond and Woodhams and no doubt there are other casualties amongst
                  our
                  office chaps but I seldom hear any office news. Our family has had to pay the penalty
                  of
                  war that so many thousands of families have done, for I am now the only one out here,
                  <span class="trauma">one brother has just been discharged after nine months in
                     hospital</span>, <span class="battle">the second one was killed at Ypres about a
                     month ago</span> and <span class="trauma">the third is now in a London hospital
                     with a bad shrapnel wound in the thigh</span>.</span> I have had a variety of
               jobs, including navvy's work, carrying rails and sleepers, guard, point oiler and
               various
               other jobs. <span class="positive">I am now a checker and number taker which job suits me
                  much better, for it combines a lot of indoor clerical work with outdoor checking and
                  now
                  that we have to face another winter out here, it will be something to spend a little
                  of
                  my time indoors for I still have memories of last winter under canvas, but I shall
                  not
                  be so badly off this winter for <span class="conditions">we are living in railway vans
                     which will be much warmer</span>. </span>I have now been in France nearly nine
               months and <span class="negative"> there does not appear to be any prospect of leave, for
                  there are more here who have been eighteen months without leave and at the rate the
                  R.O.D. men are going at present it will be well into next year before my turn
                  comes.</span>
               </p>
            
            
            <p> I understand that north London has suffered rather badly in the recent air raids
               but I hope
               you came through all right. My wife and family have had to get away from home, for
               it was
               upsetting their nerves and <span class="positive">I am pleased to think that they are out of
                  the danger zone. I am keeping fairly fit in health and always manage to keep cheery,
                  which wants a bit of doing sometimes <span class="conditions">especially now the muddy
                     season has started</span>, but let's hope this will be our last out here and by
                  this time next year we may be all settling down to civilian life again.</span>
               </p>
            
            <p>Please remember me to Mr Wood, Bert Hunt and all other Audit friends.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours sincerely</h2>
               
               F.E. Andrews'
               
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter39">
         <section>
            
            <p> This transcript is from a letter by Private Leonard Hart to his parents on 19 October
               1917. Hart describes in detail the terrible events of 12 October 1917 when New Zealand
               troops were asked to take the Bellvue Spur, near Passchendaele. Historian Jock Phillip
               writes, 'this distressing, but accurate, description of the battle ... is a remarkable
               piece
               of writing, particularly given Hart's lack of formal education.' The transcript is
               from Jock
               Phillips and Nicholas Boyack (eds), The great adventure, New Zealand soldiers describe
               the
               First World War, Allen and Unwin, Wellington, 1998 </p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>France, October 19th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Mother, Father and Connie,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>In a postcard which I sent you about a fortnight ago, I mentioned that we were on
               the eve of
               a great event, and that I had no time to write you a long letter. <span class="positive">Well that great event is over now, and by some strange act of fortune I have once
                  again
                  come through without a scratch</span>.</p>
            
            <p>
               <span class="battle">The great event mentioned consisted of a desperate attack by our
                  Division against a ridge, strongly fortified and strongly held by the Germans, but
                  the
                  name of which I had better not mention.</span>
               <span class="negative">For the first time in our brief history as an army the New Zealanders
                  failed in their objective with the most appalling slaughter I have ever seen.</span> My
               Company went into action 180 strong and we came out thirty-two strong. <span class="neutral">Still, we have nothing to be ashamed of as our commander afterwards told us that no
                  troops in the world could possibly have taken the position</span>, <span class="negative">but this is small comfort when one remembers the hundreds of lives that
                  have been lost and nothing gained.</span>I will give you an account of the battle as
               near as I can without meaning any names or exasperating the censor (should he happen
               to open
               this) too much.</p>
            
            <p>
               <span class="battle">On a certain Wednesday evening our Brigade received orders to proceed
                  to the firing line and relieve a Brigade of Tommies who had two nights previously
                  advanced their positions a distance of two thousand yards and had held the captured
                  ground against several counter attacks by the Huns.</span>
               <span class="negative">These Tommies had, however, failed to take their last objective and
                  we knew before we left that we were going to be put over the top to try and take
                  it.</span> At dusk we started off from <span class="conditions">the town where we had
                  been billeted for a few days, in full fighting order, to proceed to the front
                  line.</span> Our track led over five miles of newly conquered ground without lines of
               communication, roads, or anything but shell holes half full of water. The weather
               had for
               some days been wet and cold and the mud was in places up to the knees. <span class="negative">We struggled on through this sea of mud for some hours, and everyone was
                  feeling pretty well done.</span> It was quite common for a man to get stuck in the mud
               and have to get three or four to drag him out. <span class="negative">You can have no idea
                  of the utter desolation caused by modern shell fire.</span> The ground we were
               traversing had all been deluged with our shells before being taken from the Germans,
               <span class="conditions">and for those five miles leading to our front line trench there was
                  nothing but utter desolation, not a blade of grass, or tree, here and there a heap
                  of
                  bricks marking where a village or farmhouse had once stood, numerous ‘tanks’ stuck
                  in
                  the mud, and for the rest, just one shell hole touching another.</span>
               </p>
            
            <p>
               <span class="conditions">The torn up condition of the ground made the mud ten times worse
                  than it would otherwise have been. The only structures which had stood the bombardment
                  in any way at all were the German machine gun emplacements.</span>
               <span class="positive">These emplacements are marvellous structures made of concrete with
                  walls often ten feet thick and the concrete reinforced throughout with railway irons
                  and
                  steel bands and bars. There is room inside them for a large number of men but of course
                  they vary in size.</span> Many of these emplacements had been shattered to pieces in
               spite of their strength but others had withstood the bombardment. The ground was strewn
               with
               the corpses of numerous Huns and Tommies. Dead horse and mules lay everywhere, yet
               no
               attempt had been made to bury any of them. Well, we at length arrived at our destination
               –
               the front line and relieved the worn out Tommies. <span class="negative"> They had not
                  attempted to dig trenches but had simply held the line by occupying a long line of
                  shell
                  holes, two or three men to each hole.</span><span class="trauma"> Many of them seemed
                  too worn out to walk properly and I don’t know how some of them must have got on during
                  their long tramp through the mud back to billets.</span>
               </p>
            
            <p><span class="prep">Each of us had a shovel with him, so we set to work to make some kind of
                  trenches.</span> We were at this point about half way up one slope of the ridge which
               in the course of fortyeight hours we were to try and take. <span class="positive">The mud
                  was not so bad here owing to the water being able to run away into a swamp at the
                  foot
                  of the ridge.</span>
               <span class="prep">Anyway by daybreak we had dug ourselves in sufficiently and, although
                  wet and covered in mud from head to foot, we felt fit for a feed of bread and bully
                  beef, for breakfast. We stayed in our new trenches all that day and the day following
                  during which it rained off and on, and Fritz kept things lively with his
                  artillery.</span>
               <span class="battle">At 3 o’clock on the third morning we received orders to attack the
                  ridge at half past five, which was just before daylight. We were accordingly arranged
                  in
                  three successive waves or lines; each wave about fifty yards ahead of the
                  other.</span>
               <span class="conditions"> There was a certain amount of difficulty in this operation as it
                  was pitch dark and raining heavily.</span> When all was ready we were told to lay down
               and wait the order to charge. <span class="negative">My Company was in the first wave of the
                  attack which partly accounted for our heavy casualties.</span> Our artillery barrage
               (curtain of fire) was to open out at twenty past five and play on the German positions
               on
               top of the ridge 150 yards ahead of us. It was to move forward fifty yards in every
               four
               minutes – that is to say we were to advance as our barrage advanced and keep 100 to
               150
               yards behind it.</p>
            
            <p>
               <span class="battle">At twenty past five to the second, and with a roar that shook the
                  ground, some three thousand of our guns opened out on the five mile sector of the
                  advance. (The whole advance was on a five mile front and our Brigade occupied about
                  a
                  thousand yards of this front forming the centre of the advance. Our Rifle Brigade
                  was on
                  our left and a Tommy Division on the left of them again.</span> An Australian Division
               was on our right and another Tommy Division on the right of them again.) Through some
               blunder our artillery barrage opened up about two hundred yards short of the specified
               range
               and thus opened right in the midst of us. <span class="negative"> It was a truly awful time
                  – our own men getting cut to pieces in dozens by our own guns. Immediate disorganisation
                  followed.</span>
               <span class="battle">I heard an officer shout an order to the men to retire a short
                  distance and wait for our barrage to lift. Some, who heard the order, did so. Others,
                  not knowing what to do under the circumstances, stayed where they were, while others
                  advanced towards the German positions, only to be mown down by his deadly rifle and
                  machine gun fire.</span>
               </p>
            
            <p>
               <span class="battle">At length our barrage lifted and we all once more formed up and made a
                  rush for the ridge.</span>
               <span class="negative"> What was our dismay upon reaching almost to the top of the ridge to
                  find a long line of practically undamaged German concrete machine gun emplacements
                  with
                  barbed wire entanglements in front of them fully fifty yards deep.</span> The wire had
               been cut in a few places by our artillery but only sufficient to allow a few men through
               it
               at a time. <span class="negative"> Even then what was left of us made an attempt to get
                  through the wire and a few actually penetrated as far as his emplacements only to
                  be
                  shot down as fast as they appeared. Dozens got hung up in the wire and shot down before
                  their surviving comrades’ eyes. It was now broad daylight and what was left of us
                  realised that the day was lost.</span> We accordingly lay down in shell holes or any
               cover we could get and waited. Any man who showed his head was immediately shot. <span class="neutral">They were maravellous shots those Huns.</span> We had lost nearly eighty
               per cent of our strength and gained about 300 yards of ground in the attempt. This
               300 yards
               was useless to us for the Germans still held and dominated the ridge. We hung on all
               that
               day and night. There was no one to give us orders, all our officers of the Battalion
               having
               been killed or wounded with the exception of three, and these were all Second Lieutenants
               who could not give a definite order about the position without authority. All my Company
               officers were killed outright one of them the son of the Reverend Ryburn of Invercargill,
               was shot dead beside me. </p>
            
            <p>The second day after <span class="negative">this tragic business</span>, we were surprised
               to see about half a dozen Huns suddenly appear waving a white flag. They proved to
               be red
               cross men and the flag was a sign that they were asking for a truce to take in their
               wounded
               and bury their dead. It was granted and not a shot was fired on either side during
               the whole
               of that afternoon. <span class="positive">It was a humane and gallant act and one worthy of
                  such gallant defenders as those particular Huns certainly were.</span> Our stretcher
               bearers were able to go and take all our wounded from the barbed wire, a thing that
               would
               have been impossible otherwise. <span class="prep">Numbers of us who at ordinary times had
                  nothing to do with stretcher bearing were put on and we had all the wounded carried
                  out
                  before nightfall. We had no time to bury many of our dead but the wounded should be
                  the
                  only consideration at times like that.</span> I went out and buried poor Ryburn. He
               came with the Main Body, but had not been in France long. <span class="neutral">The
                  proportion of killed to wounded was exceptionally high compared to other battles,
                  owing
                  to the perfect marksmanship of the German machine gunners and snipers.</span>
               <span class="negative">My Company has come out with no officers, only one Sergeant out of
                  seven, one Corporal and thirty men. Even then we are not the worst off.</span></p>
            
            <p>
               <span class="prep">T he third night after the advance we were relieved and taken back about
                  three miles behind the line. Here we acted as a reserve to the Battalion which had
                  taken
                  over our sector for two days, and we were finally taken right out to billets well
                  behind
                  the line where we are now recuperating.</span> The night we came out here I received a
               parcel from you. The note inside was dated 10/7/17, and I can tell you that I felt
               hungry
               enough to eat note and all. I received another parcel from you about three days before
               we
               shifted to this front which would be about three weeks ago. They were appreciated
               about as
               well as it is possible to appreciate anything, I can assure you. Your letters of Mamma’s
               25/7/17, Connie’s of same date and Dad’s of 7/7/17 arrived about a week before the
               affair of
               the ridge. <span class="trauma">A number of our chaps who came through have since been sent
                  to hospital chiefly with trench feet due to standing in cold mud for long hours. I
                  have
                  a touch of them myself but they are not bad enough to be sent away with.</span> I have
               just decided to have this letter posted by someone going on leave to England, so I
               will tell
               you a few more facts which it would not have been advisable to mention otherwise.......</p>
            
            <p>Fighting of a very successful nature had been going on around Ypres for some months
               previous
               to our late set back at the ridge where the British are now held up. I hear that another
               attempt is to be made to take it, but it will not be with our Division. The name of
               this
               famous ridge is Passchendaele Ridge, and it has defied two attempts to take it already
               – viz
               the one attempted by the Tommies whom we relieved and our own......</p>
            
            <p>The results of our stunt you now know so no more need be said about it except that
               we did as
               well or even better that some of the Divisions on our right and left. None of them
               took
               their objectives and I know for a fact that our Third Brigade’s losses and those of
               the
               Australians were every bit as heavy as ours. The Second Brigade has at least the
               satisfaction of knowing that they held a few hundred yards of ground they took, <span class="neutral"> and our commander has since told us that no troops in the world could
                  possibly have taken the ridge under similar circumstances. </span>
               <span class="negative"> Some ‘terrible blunder’ has been made. Someone is responsible for
                  that barbed wire not having been broken up by our artillery. Someone is responsible
                  for
                  the opening of our barrage in the midst of us instead of 150 yards ahead of us. Someone
                  else is responsible for those machine gun emplacements being left practically intact,
                  but the papers will all report another glorious success, and no one except those who
                  actually took part in it will know any different.</span></p>
            
            <p>In conclusion I will relate to you another little incident or two which never reaches
               the
               press, or if it does it is ‘censored’ in order to deceive the public. This almost
               unbelievable but perfectly true incident is as follows. During the night after we
               had
               relieved the Tommies prior to our attack on the ridge we were surprised to hear agonised
               cries of ’stretcher bearer’, ‘help’, ‘For God’s sake come here’ etc, coming from all
               sides
               of us. When daylight came some of us, myself included, crawled out to some adjacent
               shell
               holes from where the cries were coming and were astonished to find about <span class="trauma"> half a dozen Tommies, badly wounded, some insane, others almost dead with
                  starvation and exposure, lying stuck in the mud and too weak to move. We asked one
                  man
                  who seemed a little better than the rest what was the meaning of it and he said that
                  if
                  we cared to crawl about the shell holes all round about him we would find dozens more
                  in
                  similar plight.</span></p>
            
            <p>We were dumbfounded, but the awful truth remained. <span class="negative">These chaps,
                  wounded in the defence of their country, had been callously left to die the most awful
                  of deaths in <span class="conditions">the half frozen mud while tens of thousands of
                     able bodied men were camped within five miles of them behind the lines.</span>
                  </span> All these Tommies (they were mostly men of the York and Lancaster Regiment) had
               been wounded during their unsuccessful attack on the ridge which we afterwards tried
               to take
               and at the time when we came upon them they must have been <span class="conditions">lying
                  where they fell in the mud and rain for four days and nights.</span> Those that were
               still alive had subsisted on the rations and water that they had carried with them
               or else
               had taken it from dead comrades beside them. <span class="negative">I have seen some pretty
                  rotten sights during the two and half years of active service, but I must say that
                  this
                  fairly sickened me.</span> We crawled back to our trenches and inside of an hour all
               our stretcher bearers were working like the heroes that they were, and in full view
               of the
               enemy who, to his credit, did not fire on them. <span class="negative">They worked all day
                  carrying out those Tommies of whom I am afraid some will be mad men for the rest of
                  their lives even if they do recover from their wounds and exposure</span>.</p>
            
            <p>Carrying wounded over such country often knee deep in mud is the most trying work
               imaginable,
               and I do not say for a moment that the exhausted Tommies (the survivors of the first
               attack
               on Passchendale Ridge) whom we relieved should have tried to carry them out for I
               do not
               believe that any of them were physically capable of doing it, but I do say that it
               was part
               of their officers’ duty to send back to the rear of the lines and have fresh men brought
               up
               to carry out the wounded that they themselves could not carry. <span class="negative">
                  Perhaps they did send back for help, but still the fact remains that nothing was done
                  until our chaps came up, and whoever is responsible for the unnecessary sacrifice
                  of
                  those lives deserves to be shot more than any Hun ever did.</span></p>
            
            <p>If they had asked for an armistice to carry out their wounded I do not doubt that
               it would
               have been granted for the Huns had plenty of wounded to attend to as well as the Tommies.
               <span class="negative">I suppose our armchair leaders call this British stubbornness. If
                  this represents British stubbornness then it is time we called it by a new name. I
                  would
                  suggest callous brutality as a substitute.</span> Apparently this is not an isolated
               instance of its kind. <span class="negative">While we were in reserve for two days to the
                  Brigade which finally took over from us I was having a look around some old German
                  dugouts and in one of them I came upon about fifty dead Tommies all lying spread out
                  over the floor as though they had been thrown in there hastily. They had evidently
                  been
                  dead some months. I asked an artillery Sergeant Major standing near by how they all
                  came
                  to be in there and he told me that they had been put in there (while wounded) during
                  the
                  advance last July, and had been forgotten. If this were true then it is even worse
                  than
                  the case just mentioned, for these dugouts must have been within a mile of our main
                  dressing stations at the time when the advance took place, and the distance to carry
                  them was thus five times less than in the other case. </span>
               </p>
            
            <p>
               <span class="negative"> After reading this do not believe our lying press, who tell you that
                  all the brutality of this war is on the Huns’ side. The Hun is no angel, we all know,
                  and the granting of an armistice such as that which we had is a rare occurrence. The
                  particular Regiments who were holding the ridge at the time our attack are known as
                  ‘Jaegers’. Probably the Prussians or most of the other Hun Regiments do not ask for
                  armistices, but for all the terrific casualties those Jaegers inflicted on us, we
                  survivors of Passchendaele Ridge must all admit that they played the game on that
                  occasion at any rate......</span>
               </p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>I remain Your affectionate son,</h2>
               
               Len
               
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter40">
         <section>
            
            <p>William Charles Frederick Wiggs, letter sent 23 December 1917, field card sent 8 January
               1918, France. Born: 2 February 1881, Regiment: Royal Engineers, Railway Troop, Regiment
               number: 218855, Rank: 2nd Corporal, Died: Oct-Dec 1971</p>
            
            
            <header>
               <h1>December 23rd</h1>
               <h2>Dear Mr Smith,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>I hope you will accept my apology for not writing before. It has not been want of
               will it has
               been lack of opportunity. I wonder how you all are. <span class="positive">I am fairly well
                  now</span> but was <span class="negative">very queer for several weeks
                  recently.</span> I also often wonder how you are all getting on and should like to
               hear.</p>
            
            
            <p>A matter of about five minutes ago Fritz was <span class="battle">bombing</span> us, and I
               have just got up off <span class="sense">the ground where I was laying for about twenty
                  minutes</span>. <span class="sense">One fellow has been hit</span>, but not
               severely by shrapnel. This is his second visit this evening.</p>
            
            
            <p>It will soon be twelve months since I left you. <span class="neutral">It seems a very long
                  time ago.</span> I am afraid I have very little I may tell you, so will conclude by
               asking you to accept my best wishes for the New year and desiring that you will remember
               me
               kindly to any enquiring friends. Believe me, dear Mr Smith,</p>
            
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>sincerely yours,</h2>
               W. Wiggs
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter41">
         <section>
            
            <header>
               <h1>At sea, April 1st</h1>
               <h2>My Dearest Mary,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p> I write this on board a boat that will leave for overseas soon. Our letters are all
               <span class="sense">censored from now on</span> so there is no use wasting my
               time and the censor's trying to tell you some things.</p>
            
            <p>I took in a little of New York last night. I went into the city from Long Island by
               the
               way of the tube under the Hudson River. I got out at the Pennsylvania station and
               spent
               the rest of the night to 1:30 a.m. just looking around. <span class="neutral">There
                  wasn't any chance to go to a good show</span> because you know how the advance
               sales take everything. Harry Lauder is at the Metropolitan and <span class="neutral">I
                  would certainly like to have seen him.</span></p>
            
            <p>I saw where the film "The Beast of Berlin" was being shown and right across the street
               was Arthur Guy Empey, "Over the Top".</p>
            
            <p>The city is <span class="sense">full of soldiers and sailors all the time</span>, I
               guess. Anyway there were a good many last night.</p>
            
            <p>The city is an easy place to get lost because of the <span class="sense">irregularity of
                  the streets</span>. Most all streets out our way cross each other at angles but in
               N.Y. they may take any direction. I walked down one street and when I took a notion
               to
               turn and go back, I wasn't on the same street at all and I couldn't tell where I made
               any turn.</p>
            
            <p>I got a <span class="sense">good look at the city from the waterfront today</span>. It
               was <span class="conditions">a bright clear day</span> and we could see quite a
               distance. I have seen pictures of N.Y. from the Hudson and I can say that the real
               thing
               was just a picture laid before you. <span class="neutral">I would like to have stayed at
                  Camp Mills until I had seen more of the city but the powers that be see
                  otherwise.</span></p>
            
            <p><span class="neutral">I can scarcely realize we are going.</span> Everything moves off
               without any trouble or delay that it might just as well be a trip up the river.</p>
            
            <p>Well, <span class="positive">I have been looking forward to this for quite a
                  while</span> and I guess, now that the time for going has come, it fits right into
               my scheme and ways of thinking that the going seems only a small part of it.</p>
            
            <p>Well, I must close so as to mail this right away so, goodbye little girl for a time
               at
               least. Keep on writing.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>With truest love,</h2>
               Lloyd M. Staley
               </footer>
            
            <footer class="letter">p.s.My address: Co. K, 137 Infantry, American Expeditionary Forces</footer>
            
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter42">
         <section>
            
            <p>James Walter Hyam, 15 April 1918, Roorkee, India. Born: 24 July 1891, Regiment: 11
               Hussars, C. Squadron; Royal Field Artillery; Royal Garrison Artillery, Regiment number:
               223725; 184963, Rank: Gunner, Died: 1951 When James Hyam, also nick-named Fatty, wrote
               from
               India he used these three postcards which showed different scenes from Alexandria
               in Egypt
               where he had 'a grand time' en-route to India. Transcript</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>Roorkee, India, April 15th</h1>
               <h2>My Dear</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Have arrived in India for the purpose of relieving some A1 (military fitness category
               meaning
               capable of active service overseas) men here who have been here for a long period.
               It's not
               a bad show here just above Delhi but <span class="conditions">so d____d hot: risen to 106
                  degrees in the shade and we have more hot weather just coming.</span> Our parades are
               as follows 6.30-7.45 and 9 to 10 and finish for day. <span class="positive">There is an
                  abundance of sport and grub here. Fancy getting eggs laid too. A supper of say new
                  mutton chop, potatoes, peas, broccoli and tea 4d.</span>
               </p>
            
            <p>The things that are expensive are goods from England especially English soap, sauces,
               writing
               paper and of course we are unable to get English made fags. We had a grand journey
               from
               England; route was Southampton to Cherbourg then to Italy. In Italy we went to Alexandria,
               stayed there three days <span class="positive">had a grand time, streets of red lamps etc.
                  and lovely shops. No two houses in main stretch are alike.</span> Then from Alexandria
               we come to Port Suez by train then on P. and O. Liner Kaiser I. Hind to Bombay had
               two days
               there and that's a grand place too, lovely wide streets and grand buildings. They
               have a sea
               front very much like Hastings and all the big boys have their after dinner drive there
               and
               form a queue by shore. Some stuff there too. Lots of Europeans knocking about too.
               <span class="positive"> Had a game of footer for the Railway Operatives depot last night, 6pm,
                  with Kingls Own and won. But it was so ruddy warm and I felt like a wash out at finish.
                  </span></p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Kind regards to all. Give Bill Butler my address and ask him to drop a
                  line.</h2>
               
               J.W. Hyam, Fatty.
               
               </footer>
            
            <footer class="letter">p.s.How are the tours going is Frosty still serving?</footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter43">
         <section>
            
            <header>
               <h1>France, May 29th</h1>
               <h2>My Dearest Mary,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>I received my first mail since I have gotten across yesterday. Two <span class="sense">letters</span> from you are dated April 19 and the other April 22. The first one
               was written before you had heard my N.Y. address and the other was addressed to Camp
               Mills. <span class="positive">They were indeed highly appreciated letters</span> and I
               believe that I can look for more right soon as the mail has begun to come now. There
               were <span class="sense">two other letters</span> for me also; one from Mother and
               Ethel . the other from James.Probably James Gasaway, a boyhood friend. The last was
               of
               the most recent date: May 6. <span class="positive">This was certainly an excited
                  company when we found out there was <span class="sense">so much mail</span> for
                  us.</span>
               <span class="positive">Almost everyone got <span class="sense">at least one
                     letter</span> and a few were as fortunate as myself.</span></p>
            
            <p>I was rather surprised to hear that Robert was going into the R.F.C. although you
               had
               told me of it, too. But to know that he had already left for camp and by the time
               you
               get this letter he will probably be in England was just a bit of a surprise. <span class="positive">Well, I am glad that he is in the service</span> but, of course,
               <span class="neutral">I would like to have seen him in a uniform of the
                  U.S.A.</span>
               <span class="positive">It is all one cause, however, and we are comrades just the same
                  whether American, English, or what.</span> I have <span class="sense">seen some
                  mighty fine men from Britain</span> just what short time I have been here. (My pen
               went dry and I haven't any ink at my elbow as I did in U.S.) Speaking of the English,
               <span class="positive">it is wonderful how men can go through three and four years
                  of this war and still be <span class="sense">smiling, cheerful, good-natured
                     fellows</span>,</span> but they are. I agree with Robert when he says there
               will be two classes of men in America after the war -- the ones who went, and the
               ones
               who did not. And I believe as he does the ones who went are going to be the ones who
               will have charge of affairs when they get back for, <span class="neutral">if a man
                  stands this war and still comes out smiling, he is a man.</span>
               <span class="positive">I certainly hope I may have a chance of seeing Robert over
                  here</span> but it would be only an accident I am afraid. Let me know his address
               from time to time so if there is any way of seeing him, I will do all I can to find
               him.</p>
            
            <p>You must have a nice home now and right in your old neighborhood. And those fruit
               trees
               take my eye. I believe I could consume your total production right now. Some of these
               times we will sample that fruit and also stroll over to Swope Park and look things
               over
               considerably after the war, apres la guerre, as the French say. Whenever you say
               anything to them about certain things they can't do now, <span class="negative">they
                  always say "after the war," and I think that little expression shows to what
                  extremes they are willing to go in <span class="sense">self
                     sacrifice</span>.</span><span class="positive"> I certainly have a very high
                  opinion of the French.</span> They are most <span class="sense">highly respected
                  by the American soldiers and they return the compliment</span>.</p>
            
            
            <p>To sit here where I am now, <span class="neutral">it seems scarcely possible that we are
                  so <span class="conditions">near the front</span>.</span> This country here is a
               <span class="sense">peaceful-looking farming country</span> and, to look out over
               the quiet fields, <span class="neutral">it is hard to realize that the <span class="battle">fighting</span> is so close at hand.</span> To walk across
               these fields is just like taking a stroll over Dad's farm on some quiet Sunday
               afternoon. Only there are several things that are conspicuously absent -- most of
               all
               the folks that were left behind. The ones that you love and are loved by is what goes
               to
               make life worthwhile.</p>
            
            <p>Well, the sound of the <span class="battle">big guns</span> somewhere not so many
               miles away has begun again. Sometimes the sound comes from one side, then the other,
               until it is hard to tell which way one could go and not find someone <span class="battle">shooting</span> at someone else. My address is the same: Co. K,
               137th Inf., Amer. E.F. I expect you know it by this time but some of my letters may
               drop
               by the wayside so it is best to be sure for I certainly want to get all the mail that
               is
               coming to me.</p>
            
            <p>So, goodbye to the little girl who has given up two loved ones so cheerfully and sent
               them away with the smile that counts.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>With sincerest love,</h2>
               Lloyd
               </footer>
            
            <footer class="letter">p.s.(Tell Aunt Jess I will write her soon. I am glad that you two have become such
               good friends.)</footer>
            
            
            <footer class="letter">p.s.P.S. I have received another letter from you since I wrote the fore part of this
               letter. It was dated April 25. Also I got one from Mother dated May 10. It was marked
               No. 2.... suppose No. 1 was sidetracked somewhere along the line. This is the second
               letter I have written you since going into our billets The other was not dated at
               all,
               maybe this one won't be when you get it but I am risking it anyway. Mother said my
               first
               letter written on the boat got by without being cut up. It had no cause for being
               cut up
               as I said almost nothing as most of my letters do, but wait until I can tell you.
               I will
               have some tale. Well, goodnight sweetheart, Lloyd</footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter44">
         <section>
            
            <header>
               <h1>France, June 24th</h1>
               <h2>My Dearest Mary,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>It is about time to write again and, <span class="positive">as I feel rather in the humor
                  and have the time</span>, I will proceed without any further delay.</p>
            
            <p>I am still in the same place as I told you in the last letter -- at the Brigade post
               office and the <span class="sense">four of us are the only ones left</span> in this
               town. I mean Americans, of course. <span class="neutral">We are having quite a time as
                  we are our own cooks</span> and are ruled by our own sweet wills. <span class="negative">I can't say that it will be so pleasant, though, if we are here for
                  a few days more than we are expecting.</span><span class="conditions">Anything to
                  eat</span> is awfully hard to get, especially if you are a soldier. The Army is
               supposed to feed us, you know, and everything outside the Army is for civilians and
               God
               knows they need what little they can get. The people here, two or three men, <span class="sense">cleaned up the building used for storage of supplies in order to get
                  what might be left behind</span>. They thought they made a good bargain, too, and
               I suppose the Americans did leave more than the French ever do.</p>
            
            <p>Oh yes, I meant to tell you what we had for <span class="conditions">breakfast</span>
               and all this was cooked by the corporal in charge and what assistance I could give.
               We
               had fried eggs, we bought some from a Frenchwoman, steak, Army issue, we got a
               half-cooked chunk of beef from the Company we ate with, butter or oleo, strawberry
               jam,
               bread, and coffee. Bread was Army bread, white bread, too, and about one hundred percent
               better than the French people eat. <span class="neutral">That was not so bad, was it,
                  for an Army meal.</span>
               <span class="negative">I only wish I could have one like it every day.</span></p>
            
            <p>Our office is right next to the schoolhouse and we often talk with the schoolmaster,
               make
               signs or any other way to <span class="sense">communicate</span>. They have separate
               rooms for boys and girls over here and the <span class="sense">children that get to
                  school at this place are no larger than would compare with our attendants of the
                  third or fourth grade.</span> I don't know whether that is as far as they expect
               the children to go or not. The schoolroom looks a great deal like any schoolroom.
               The
               benches or seats are longer than ours -- they must seat two or three together. The
               room
               has an abundance of maps, pictures, and blackboards. They seem to study the geography
               of
               France but little of any other part of the world. <span class="positive">We were much
                  interested in the map of France</span> as we wished to see where we had been in our
               journey and I must say I was very much surprised at how much we had really covered.
               I
               sure want to tell you all about it one of these days. Just take that big map we so
               often
               have studied and talk until we can't talk anymore and then just take you in my arms
               and
               kiss those sweet rosy lips again. Well, they talk of the girl that was left behind,
               for
               my part I can see you just as plain as I ever did and you look a thousand times more
               dear to me now and <span class="positive">someday we will be the happiest boy and girl
                  that there possibly can be anywhere in the world.</span></p>
            
            <p>I haven't had a letter from you for over a week now but <span class="negative">I can't
                  get my mail as I should.</span> It goes out to the Company and I can't get to the
               Company. This idea of working in a post office and then can't get your own mail is
               some
               idea. I am going to have you send my letters directed to the 69th Brigade, P.O. 35th
               Division, American Expeditionary Forces. Then if I change again soon, I will immediately
               let you know.</p>
            
            <p>Well, it is getting close to dinnertime and <span class="neutral">I must help get <span class="conditions">dinner</span> -- we are regular cooks now.</span> Tell me
               all and everything that you possibly can write as I sure love to read your <span class="sense">letters</span> more than anything else, unless it is writing ones for
               you to read.</p>
            
            <p>By the way, I read that story in the <span class="sense">April American</span>
               yesterday. <span class="positive">It was the luckiest thing I ever got hold of
                  one.</span> You asked me to read "Pictures Burned in My Memory" I believe and I
               must say that, as far as I have gone in this business, that story certainly tells
               the
               straight stuff. I used to think that a lot of such stories were written by men with
               highly colored imaginations but I see now that they could tell even more and still
               be
               speaking the truth.</p>
            
            <p>This must be "fini" or I will miss out on the <span class="conditions">eats</span> and
               that can't be done with impunity in the Army. So, goodbye for a little while my own
               little sweetheart.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>With sincerest truest love,</h2>
               Lloyd
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter45">
         <section>
            
            <header>
               <h1>France, July 31st</h1>
               <h2>My Dearest Mary,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Well, I have had another <span class="sense">letter</span> from you since I wrote
               last. This one was dated June 30. It takes about that much time, it seems, for a letter
               to get to us. Also, I had one from Mother of about the same date. You two seem to
               write
               about the same dates every time and when I get a letter from one, I can almost always
               expect one from the other right soon.</p>
            
            
            <p>We have moved again but not far this time. Moved on my favorite moving day, Sunday,
               or
               rather the day the Army has picked for me so many times. We have our office in <span class="conditions">an old barn</span> of some sort. <span class="neutral">Quite a
                  drop from sorting mail on a billiard table.</span> The <span class="conditions">floor is so rickety</span> here that <span class="negative">we are in danger of
                  going through every time we make any movements.</span>
               <span class="positive">Also, I may say the <span class="conditions">ventilating
                     system</span> is good -- extra good -- and the <span class="conditions">elevator</span> going down is in perfect working order.</span> I forgot to
               state our office was on the second floor. The <span class="conditions">lighting
                  system</span> is rather poor, though. I intend to see the landlord about it soon
               but <span class="neutral">I am afraid we would have a hard time "comprening" each other
                  and I don't know the <span class="sense">sign language</span> for more light
                  yet.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>I just came from K Co. and <span class="positive">everyone there seems to be in <span class="sense">good health and the best of spirits</span>.</span> Brought a
               letter back for Shoemaker, to go out tomorrow. Shoey is working in the kitchen now
               and,
               from all appearances, he is getting lots to eat. I suppose they will be moving up
               to the
               <span class="battle">trenches</span> again as soon as they have been out the
               usual time.</p>
            
            
            <p>I am going to send you an issue of the <span class="sense">Stars and Stripes</span> as
               soon as I have finished reading it. This is the A.E.F. paper and I think that you
               will
               be pleased to see what sort of a paper it is. This paper is not the regular newspapers
               we get but sort of a sheet that reflects the A.E.F. spirit. Our news sources are the
               <span class="sense">Paris edition of the N.Y. Herald</span>, <span class="sense">Chicago Tribune</span>, and the <span class="sense">Daily Mail</span>. The
               last is an English paper put out by the London Daily Mail.</p>
            
            
            <p>Found where there is a ruin of an <span class="sense">old castle</span> and as soon as
               I find the time I am going to see what there is to see there. It is on a small hill
               that
               rises rather abruptly out of the valley and, from the looks of things from the ground,
               it is indeed a hard place to reach even now. Those old timers were fond of such sites
               I
               have been told. The fellow that picked this place, picked a good one, too.</p>
            
            
            <p>Heard from Doug a few days before I got your last letter. He seems to be in the best
               of
               spirits and he hears from Joe I. occasionally, too. He says she is in Washington D.C.
               working for my able employer. Well, he has a lot of jobs open, it seems, from the
               way
               the revised <span class="prep">draft classification</span> looks. <span class="negative">That one took a lot of boys that were not expecting anything just
                  yet.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>Oh! I must tell you I saw Becker a night or so ago. He showed me a <span class="sense">letter</span> he had from Robert and, as a return favor, I gave him the one I had
               from Doug. <span class="neutral">Don't misunderstand me and think that is our regular
                  custom in the Army.</span> That is the exception rather than the rule.</p>
            
            
            <p>Well, it is getting late so I suppose it would be best for me to ring off for this
               time.
               So, goodnight once again, little girl. <span class="negative">I have often wondered how
                  long these goodnights will be said this way</span>, <span class="neutral">but it is
                  all for the best and one of these days... Well, it will be some day</span>. So,
               goodnight to my own little sweetheart.</p>
            
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours with sincerest love,</h2>
               Lloyd
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter46">
         <section>
            
            <p> Source:National Library of New Zealande Collection:MS-Papers-0421: Inglis, Lindsay
               Merritt (Major General), 1894-1966 : Papers Author: Inglis, Lindsay Merritt (Major
               General)
               Strand Place Hotel, Strand, London, W.C.2.</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>Strand Place Hotel, Strand, London, August 14th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Old Girl,</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Here goes for another small note to swell your budget at the post and to relate events.<span class="positive">Thus far I have been as lazy as I can be. Yesterday and the day before I
                  have been buzzing around during the day doing a fair amount of necessary shopping,
                  and
                  temp(?) now almost fined up for my immediate wants - except for what the tailor is
                  making.</span> Will cease that sort of uncertainty till just before I go back when I
               shall plunge in and buy any bulky stuff I want to take back. And talking of shopping
               -<span class="negative">I can't make up my mind what to get for you. You have asked of course
                  for something that would do for our home - but so far I haven't got any further ahead
                  with the choosing.</span><span class="positive">Then in one of your last letters you
                  talked of some blouse materials you coveted, and that gave me inspiration</span>- if I
               could only land somebody to choose them. I've another idea too. I shall try it on.
               Don't be
               curious, mum, and you won't be told no lies.</p>
            
            <p><span class="positive">Yesterday afternoon I met(redacted)'s office of the Otago Regiment,
                  and we had several games of five and a swim at the Royal Automobile Club. We also
                  spent
                  the evening together smoking and yarning. The day before I had dinner with Charley
                  Foradick and later on we went round to the Waldorf Hotel to look up Geddis who was
                  staying there only another day or two of leave to run. We found him just turning in,
                  so
                  dug him out of bunk and held a party in his room till a very later hour, when we left
                  him in peace and went our several ways to beds</span>. Geddis -- commonly known to us
               as "Little Willie" has a great attraction at a place called Livydon(?) not very far
               from
               London - a pretty girl who has absorbed most of his attention during his leaves. I
               half
               suspected to find him getting married this time. Forsdick and I offered our assistance
               and
               promised to make fitting speeches if he would arrange the ceremony; but he said the
               time was
               not yet ripe and offered to make it a double event with me.</p>
            
            <p><span class="neutral">Did I ever tell you, dear, that the word of our engagement was bruited
                  around the N.Z.E.F in France sometime about March last?</span>Well there is a paper of
               N.Z. news called the "New Zealander" printed by some benevolent person and issued
               free to us
               periodically, and there it was - copied of course from N.Z. papers. <span class="positive">I
                  have been collecting congratulations from then on.</span>Dearest old chap, things are
               not pouring out of my throat onto the paper with the greatest of ease. Same old
               complaint.<span class="negative">I feel that I am getting very stale and as dull as
                  dishwater, and since Forsdick wants to take me to meet some of the friends he has
                  made
                  in England I shall be only too pleased to take the opportunity and try to combat the
                  tendency.</span> I wouldn't be surprised if that is what I need. A man deprived of
               feminine society grows rough edges after a time too - I'm sure I don't know what you'll
               find
               me like when I get back to you, old chap. You'd better collect some files and sandpaper
               for
               the process of smoothing me off again! Darling girl,keep your pecker up and smile.
               <span class="negative">I think I miss you more on leave than at any other time.</span></p>
            
            <p>
               <span class="negative">It feels so much like burning daylight to be without you in a place
                  like this. Quite different from being with the company where I wouldn't have you come
                  for the world - much as I long for you.</span> Do you see, old chap? Stop me, old lady
               - I"m getting to be a confirmed growler. <span class="positive">I am fit and well,
                  dear.</span>
               <span class="negative">Always very much love and longing for you. I've almost forgotten what
                  it feels like to have you in my arms.</span>
               <span class="positive">But someday I'm going to remind both of us just exactly what it's
                  like. Let's have a big wish together for the chance to come soon.</span> In the
               meantime, sweetheart, there is always "this". All my love for your dear old self.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Your</h2>
               
               Lindsay.
               
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter47">
         <section>
            
            <p>Mitchell Library, State Library of New South Wales George Washington Thomas Lambert
               letter, 7 August 1919 MLMSS 97/4/Item 2 [Transcribers note: The letter dated 7 August
               1919
               is written to his wife from Marseilles when George Lambert is on his way back to London
               from
               Egypt. The pages after the letter appear to be part of his diary written when he was
               at
               Moascar, Egypt towards the end of his time in that country.] [Page 1] Lambert Family
               Papers
               George Washington Thomas Lambert Papers re War Service, 1915-1919 Loose sheets from
               War
               Diary, 1919 (ML MSS.97/4 Item 1) [Page 2] Rest Camp Marseilles</p>
            
            <header>
               <h1>August 7th</h1>
               <h2>Dear Mick</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>After a very <span class="positive">delightful &amp; peaceful</span> voyage across the
               Meditteranean the long &amp; rugged arms of Marseilles Harbour enclose us safely; and
               with
               the French green trees &amp; <span class="conditions">mild sunshine the blue water &amp;
                  cooling breezes</span> one may perhaps for an hour forget. Forget now for an hour the
               awful country we have left, I trust for ever as far as Im concerned. <span class="positive">My health state is good and improving</span>. This break is annoying but we may resume
               our journey tomorrow. I will let you know by wire my progress towards London. The
               worst is
               over &amp; I feel I shall arrive in good trim possibly 4 to 5 days after you receive
               this.</p>
            
            <p>The mess room is demobilizing itself. Once a smart hut capable of dining about 30
               officers in
               style. Brick walls, timber roof, Egyptian colours on the walls. Roof still there,
               walls
               demobilizing colours blending artistically having lost most of their suddeness on
               the
               Tussour shirts of the tired Heads. (Tired exhausted Heads Staff Officers.) <span class="conditions">Thousands of flies</span>, that likeThethe Intelligent. Natives
               realize that the screens are faulty and hop in for Their cut while the going is good"
               (Australian for Seize your opportunity"). The comparison between parasites and intelligent
               Natives must not be laboured as this is even now a military letter and the Censor
               may even
               at this stage be on the spot, namely doing his duty under terrific odds. Outside this
               bit of
               shade (111 Fahrenheit) there is a blaze of almost colourless light and it takes, even
               for an
               experienced savage like myself, a few seconds to locate the differences between sand,
               tents
               and sky. In this blaze work still goes on, army work which is like every other kind
               of work,
               I meeself yesterday sat out in the blaze and did an accurate drawing of a cacolet
               (Cacolet
               two stretchers attached to camel for field ambulance work). [See image for drawing.]
               The
               work goes on but with that greatest of all physical efforts, the effort to do ones
               duty
               during the last hours of a long contract.</p>
            
            <p>There have been backslidings and senseless noise and a scrap here and there but I
               am dealing
               now with myself and the men who appeal to me. The others can be dealt with by the
               A.P.M.inand possibly by some damned journalist who sings the song of the Bolschevick.
               I am
               writing because I have no duties for two or three hours, merely finishing my diary,
               packing
               my stuff or rather assisting my offsider to do it. I shall finish I hope a sketch
               of Ismalia
               this evening. But to our muttons Take my man. <span class="prep">He is carefully
                  rearranging &amp; packing pictures, materials, clothes</span> &amp;c. renovating cases
               with nails he has to find patiently, thoroughly. A group of men the last of the A.P.Ms
               outfit ride past in the same old Australian manner taking their horses down to water.
               Perhaps tomorrow their horses will be handed in but today they will be watered, fed,
               groomed, and told with the harsh voice which conceals emotion that they are Bastards.
               Just
               alongside my hut Signals (Telegraph &amp; Telephone Office) keeps up its monotonous Moascar,
               Moascar, Yes Sir or Hello! How she go" as the case requires. Sometimes the call rings
               or
               burrs and the worn out operator fails to hear it at once, his offsider or the man
               who is
               about to relieve him wakes up and giving a rub to his face with a towel to removegetsome
               of
               the sweat &amp; sleepinessfrom his face</p>
            
            <p>walks over to the receiver &amp; takes the call after which he curses his mate who wakes
               up
               &amp; continues Moascar"! Some swell writer or some swollen writer used to say, The Time
               (or
               Times, the day, or the period) was big with portent. Anticipation of great things
               to come is
               of course the sheet anchor of the hopeful child and disappointed adult. We that is
               Us" are
               in or near to the land where conception gained the word Divine after many million
               years of
               primitive literary effort, and the most of us are still willing to create &amp; build
               in our
               work and all of us are capable of doing our humble part in the productive process
               of
               bringing more men &amp; women into the world but to have to clean up, something my dear
               wife
               that you understand, is Hell and must be done; and I want to express not so much wonder
               at
               myself because I have many interests but at the war" generally and to say finally
               that this
               day is big. Incident every minute. A sentry standing to attention, merely as a matter
               of
               habit. This page was interrupted by the sound of a horse grunting and a man cursing
               and I
               ran into the blaze to see what is possibly the last buck jumper trying to get his
               man off
               just as if the war was beginning.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>For Finish Ref. Personal paragraph to Wife.</h2>
                G.W.L.
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter48">
         <section>
            
            
            <p>Charles Monaghan</p>
            
            
            <header>
               <h1>July 21st</h1>
               <h2>My beloved Em</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Aye full well this is a week of anniversaries. In addition to the <span class="positive">wonderful days</span> of me homecoming it is also the 4th anniversary of the days a
               hundred thousand of us Digger soldiers first smelt war's gunpowder &amp; received our
               baptism of fire. Last Monday the 19th was the anniversary of the Battle of Fromelles
               when
               the 5th Division got so <span class="battle">horribly cut up</span>: then tomorrow the
               22nd , 4 years ago saw the big stunt of Pozieres launched. Shall I ever forget this
               night
               then, --- the eve of the battle. We were – the stretcher-bearers, mobilised in a village
               about 7 miles behind the line. Darkness fell, &amp; <span class="prep">each man was ordered
                  to stand by to be ready to move off at a moments notice</span>.</p>
            
            <p>The preliminary bombardment had already started &amp; we could hear <span class="sense">the
                  shattering roar of the big guns</span> posted in the rear not far, from where we were.
               After 'standing to', till mid-night, the welcome order came to move forward – welcome
               only
               because it meant action, the awful waiting &amp; <span class="negative">period of <span class="prep">inaction</span> at such times is the thing that tries one's
                  nerves</span>. At daybreak we had reached the area immediately behind the front
               trenches &amp; were at once in the thick of it. The next few hours I have only a <span class="negative">nightmarish remembrance of- I was <span class="battle">helping poor
                     chaps with their awful wounds</span></span> (we hadn't got used to them then)
               &amp; getting them back into comparative safety then back again for others. About 10 o'clock
               I met Tony. We were in different units then &amp; hadn't seen each other for weeks. Shall
               I
               ever forget that meeting. The rivulsion of fooling at seeing a dear familiar face
               so
               unexpectedly &amp; under such conditions knocked me completely of my perch &amp; I blubbered
               like a kid. I was ashamed but it did me the world of good, the nervous tension was
               broken,
               &amp; ever after through all the stunt if the next 3 days, I was right as a trivet &amp;
               felt not the strain at all. I wrote to the old cobber last night. Do you wonder how
               I love
               him?</p>
            
            <p>Little did we think it possible that 4 years hence we'd be safely back in the homeland
               writing by a cosy fire with nothing more terrifying than the crackling sparks to remind
               us
               of former fireworks. Then the homecoming last year. Though it was sadly clouded, there
               was
               that bright single ray, when followed brought me to you. <span class="positive">Hope burned
                  within me</span> from the time it was illuminated during the period of our
               correspondence, &amp; the first sight of your dear face on that Monday afternoon, set
               the
               glow of ever, As long as life lasts &amp; in the hereafter Yes, my beloved I thank God
               for
               all His goodness. 'His mercies endueth forever'. I loved your last letter, Em It breathed
               the pure tender purpose of a high ideal, &amp; together we will strive to attain that
               lofty
               plane of true &amp; perfect Love. When I revisit the past twelve months my heart overflows
               in a paen of happy rejoicing. It has given me you, the gentlest, sweetest truest &amp;
               best
               lassie man can be blest with. May I ever be worthy of my great possession. I'll write
               no day
               by day news this time dear. Will reserve till our next. Good night my love, may sweet
               sleep
               give you all his rest.</p>
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Ever yours</h2>
                Chas
               </footer>
            
            <footer class="letter">p.s.P.S. Mary arrived home safely yesterday.</footer>
            </section>
      </div>
      <div class="special_container" id="letter49">
         <section>
            
            <p>Sidney Smith, undated, Longmoor Camp, England. Born: 20 October 1881, Regiment: Railway
               Operatives Division, Royal Engineers, Regiment number: 218849, Rank: Sapper, Returned
               to
               office: 19 May 1919, Retired: 20 October 1941</p>
            
            
            <header>
               <h1>England, unknown</h1>
               <h2>Dear Mr Beak and all,</h2>
            </header>
            
            
            <p>My address shows you I am well in now. <span class="negative">Oh it is a different life and comes hard at first</span>,
               <span class="conditions">four blankets on the floor</span> and it is hard. I didnt get used to it until last night which was
               my first nights proper rest. <span class="negative">The food is fair but served very rough and not enough</span> after the
               <span class="prep">drills</span> you have to go through. The <span class="conditions">weather</span> has of course been very bad and I am <span class="conditions">still in the
                  same things</span> as I left London last Monday. <span class="negative">I look like a tramp</span> and my collar, of the colour,
               something like the office grate. I was <span class="trauma">inoculated</span> last Thursday but <span class="neutral">was not so bad but some
                  of the fellows felt it.</span> I expect I shall have a time with the next lot but hope I dont as
               they have not got much sympathy and <span class="negative">of course there is no comfort</span>. A lot of fellows (about
               four hundred and fifty) have been shifted (Saturday and today) to Bordon and we shall
               all
               probably go when we get <span class="prep">fitted out</span> as they are making a new camp there with three new
               companies. <span class="negative">It cannot be worse than here which is very dreary and lonely</span> and the nearest
               village (Liss) is three miles away where several of us went on Saturday and Sunday
               and had
               tea. That place is I may say, truly rural. I have had a <span class="sense">military hair cut</span> tonight and feel
               that I look like Bill Sykes. <span class="negative">I am afraid none of our young ladies would care to be seen
                  walking up number 1 (platform at Paddington Station) with me as I look at the moment.</span>
               (censored.)</p>
            
            
            <p>There is no leave now, only when you get your overseas leave which is generally after
               six
               weeks here and <span class="negative">when you come back you are the put on the draft so it isnt long is it?</span> George
               Jones and Isles will probably stay longer as they are to have false teeth but me,
               although
               as you know, I have got a very <span class="trauma">bad lot of teeth</span> was passed and they are not touching mine.
               Army ways are funny and I have already found out a lot of which I trust I shall one
               day be
               able to tell you.</p>
            
            
            <p>I forget to tell you we all got split up into different huts when we arrived and mine
               is
               about a mile away from the camp. <span class="positive">It is very comfortable however much better <span class="conditions">accommodation</span>
                  than at the camp.</span> Three other of our fellows were put in there with me and I found some
               others, also some very nice London &amp; North Western Railway chaps, one of whom knew
               Mr
               Bryant and all the Fares office chaps. He was the head of the Season Ticket Office
               at
               Euston. I might say that <span class="positive">they have been very good to me and assisted me more than some of
                  our chaps</span>, one or two of whom I am sorry to say have not done what they might to assist
               others and I (together with some of the others) have been surprised but of this more
               anon
               when we meet. Well I bid you all adieu for the present. I think of you all often and
               only
               <span class="negative">wish I was back again</span> <span class="neutral">but it has to be done and one can only hope the end will come soon.</span> I
               hope poor old Syd Douce is getting on alright as we have not heard how he is. Now
               good luck
               to you all and every success and tell them all that could go <span class="negative">to keep out of this life as
                  long as they can.</span> Goodnight.</p>
            
            
            <p>I may say that four of our chaps who were lucky to get their outfit last week were
               moved to
               Bordon this afternoon: G. Holloway, Isles, Borrough, G.R.J. Jones.</p>
            
            
            <footer class="letter">
               
               <h2>Yours very sincerely,</h2>
               S. Smith.
               </footer>
            </section>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>

