<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Methodology</title>
        <link rel="Stylesheet" type="text/css" href="letters.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div class="head">
            <h1 class="main">Letters From WWI Soldiers</h1>
            <div class="topnav">
                <a href="index.xhtml">Home</a>
                <a class="active" href="methodology.xhtml">Methodology</a>
                <a href="letters.xhtml">Letters</a>
                <a href="analysis.xhtml">Analysis</a>
                <a href="conclusion.xhtml">Conclusion</a>
            </div>
        </div>
        <div class="container">
            <h1 class="content">Markup Methodology</h1>
            <p>               
                For this project, our markup centered around the identification of emotive statements and war-time factors.
                Our aim was to build a relationship between the overall sentiment of the letter (representative of the soldier's mental
                state on a given time), the way the writer expressed his emotions, and the experiences he had during the war.</p>
                
            <h1 class="content">Emotive statements:</h1>
                <p>The writer expressing some kind of feeling, judgement, or emotional remark.  Emotive statements can
                be explicit or implied, but must convey an emotion that is classified as positive, neutral, or negative.
                Ex: "We have had quite a good time and the regular hours and regular meals
                have backed everyone up well and now we are all as fit as ever apparently."
                War-time factors: Experiences related to the war reported by the writer, either involving the author or his immediate group.</p>
                
            <h1 class="content">Factors groups:</h1>
                <ul>
                <li>- Trauma: physical injuries, sickness, or death.
                Ex: "awful bruises", "weight"</li>
                <li>- Battle: physical conflict, fights, gunfire, shellfire.
                Ex: "bomb", "gas shells", "trenches"</li>
                <li>- Prep: activities related to preparing for deployment, such as training, travel, receiving supplies, and relocation.
                Ex: "route march", "parades", "signalling"</li>
                <li>- Conditions: living conditions, food, weather, access to amenities.
                Ex: "rather rough journey", "lousy(infested with lice)"</li>
                <li>- Sense: other experiences which a soldier can see, hear, smell, or taste.  Used as a category for "other" noteworthy happenings
                which do not fit into the first four groups, such as getting mail from home.
                Ex: "one thousand seven hundred men on board"
                "gets off some pretty good comedy"</li>
                </ul>>
                
                <p>Our methodology will provide quantitative data for comparing overall emotive sentiment with a proportion of factors reported.
                The relationship between wartime factors and emotion provides perspective into a soldier's mental wellbeing.</p>
            </div>
    </body>
</html>